This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris Carpenter, contains highlights of paper OTC 28905, “Advances in LHDIs and Applications,” by Y.D. Chin and A. Srivastava, Subsea Engineering Technologies, prepared for the 2018 Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 30 April–3 May. The paper has not been peer reviewed. Copyright 2018 Offshore Technology Conference. Reproduced by permission. This paper summarizes historical advancements in low-dosage hydrate inhibitors (LDHIs) over the past 2 decades, discusses their advantages and limitations, and their selection criteria. Historically, hydrate risk has been managed by keeping fluids warm, removing water, or injecting thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs), commonly methanol (MeOH) or monoethylene glycol (MEG). THIs require high dosage rates; therefore, that technique can pose limitations to production systems in the form of supply, storage, and umbilical-injection constraints. Additionally, high dosages of MeOH can cause crude contamination for downstream refineries. LDHIs continue to offer significant efficiency and cost benefits over other techniques. Introduction THIs have long been used by the industry because of their ability to shift the hydrate-equilibrium curve toward higher pressures and lower temperatures by changing the activity of water molecules. MeOH and MEG have proved the most popular types of THI because of their low cost and widespread availability. Though THIs are low-cost, the volume requirement per barrel offsets the cost benefit. A group of chemicals developed later, LDHIs, differ from THIs because they do not shift the hydrate curve; rather, they interfere with the process of hydrate formation through different mechanisms. The dosage requirement of these inhibitors is much lower than that required for THIs. LDHIs include two categories, kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) and antiagglomerants (AAs). KHIs increase the induction time for hydrate formation by interfering with the nucleation process or the crystal-growth process. Special surfactants disperse hydrate particles as they form, reducing the tendency of hydrates to stick to the pipe’s inner surface, reducing the chance of plug formation. AAs modify the agglomeration of hydrate particles, decreasing hydrate-crystal size by affecting hydrate morphology. This leads to a hydrate slurry flow, which decreases the chance of pipeline blockage. Inhibition mechanisms of both KHIs and AAs are discussed in detail in the complete paper, as is the historical development of these LDHIs. LDHI Applications Performance Parameters. The two primary parameters for LDHI performance measurement include the following: Hold Time. This is defined as the time between when a rapidly cooled fluid is at a constant temperature below the hydrate-equilibrium temperature and when hydrates first appear. For KHIs, the hold time decreases steeply with the increase in subcooling. Dosage Rates. To establish actual dosage rates for a LDHI in a specific fluid, technical-feasibility testing would be required with the actual LDHI and fluid under actual pressure and temperature conditions. An approximate range of expected LDHI dosage rates can be given as examples as follows. Gas System. For a gas system operating with condensed water, the dosage-rate guideline is 5 gal LDHI/bbl of condensed water. Breakthrough of formation water with a saline content of at least 3 wt% would reduce the rate to between 0.5 and 1.0 gal LDHI/bbl of formation water, although it should be recognized that this would be a different LDHI from the one used with condensed water.



Most of the world's resources of hydrocarbons energy remain in the form of methane hydrates or clathrates. These exist naturally as frozen crystalline lattice consisting of molecules of water that have formed an open, cage-like lattice that encloses molecules of methane. For example, if one percent of the methane hydrates deposits in the Gulf of Mexico were to be commercially drillable and produce able, the United States would not be dependent upon foreign imports of oil and gas for the foreseeable future. However, and it must be mentioned early on, methane hydrates present a litany of drilling-related challenges to the conventional methods. To a great degree, this explains why there have been only a few attempts to drill for commercial quantities. Much has been discussed and learned about where methane hydrates of "commercial quantities" are located, reservoir thickness and depth, etc. Commercial quantities have been quantified onshore typically in artic permafrost regions and offshore on the slopes of continental shelves where pressure and temperatures are suitable and methane and water co-exist. Scientific expeditions such as those conducted by the Integrated Offshore Drilling Program (Texas A&M) have extensively mapped and quantified huge deposits, globally. However, little has been written about technologies that exist that appear to have unique potential to enable the safe and effective drilling and production of commercial quantities. In addition to hydrates being only quasi-stable, the crystalline structure packs methane so efficiently, depending upon the purity of the hydrate, it can contain between 70 and 164 times the volume of free gas at standard temperature and pressure vs. the volume of the hydrate prior to dissociation. Because hydrates will dissociate or release free gas upon a decrease of pressure, increase of temperature, or combinations thereof, premature dissociation around the wellbore and within annulus returns to the surface must be avoided during the drilling process. A primary purpose of this paper is to suggest that Managed Pressure Drilling (MPD) technology may be uniquely applicable to the successful drilling for commercial quantities. "MPD is an adaptive drilling process used to more precisely control the annular pressure profile throughout the wellbore. The objectives are to ascertain the downhole pressure environment limits and to manage the annular hydraulic pressure profile accordingly." Add to this IADC definition of Managed Pressure Drilling an ability to avoid a premature increase in temperature within the wellbore annulus - summarizes the context of this presentation. Given the "size of the prize" and with encouragement by the U.S. Department of Energy, the President of the United States, Japan and others that have announced commitments to developing the technology base to allow commercial production of methane from hydrates deposits by the year 2015, a purpose of this endeavor is to assist in launching serious discussion about methane hydrate drilling technology. MPD has been practiced onshore for at least the past two decades with good success.



 The application of extended subsea networks and transportation of unprocessed well-streams are amongst favorable options for reducing field development and operational costs. These pipelines normally convey a cocktail of multiphase fluids, including mixed electrolyte produced water and liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons and may therefore be prone to hydrate formation, which potentially can block the pipe and lead to serious operational problems. For deep water operation, even saturated saline solutions may not provide the required protection, unless combined with chemical inhibitor. The reported data on hydrate formation in mixed salt and chemical inhibitor are very limited and in some cases inconsistent.  In this work, a model is introduced to predict the hydrate free zone in mixed salt and chemical inhibitor designed for offshore and deep water applications. The model is based on combination of the Valderrama modification of the Patel-Teja equation of state with non-density dependent mixing rules and a modification of a Debye-Hückel electrostatic term, which is applied to systems containing salt and chemical inhibitor by correcting the properties of the aqueous phase such as dielectric constant, density and molecular weight. A linear mixing rule is used for determining the dielectric constant of salt-free mixture by introducing an interaction parameter (in dielectric constant mixing rule), which is tuned using the freezing point data of aqueous solutions containing salt and organic inhibitor. The binary interaction parameter between salt and organic inhibitor is adjusted using water vapor pressure data in the presence of salt and organic inhibitor. The predictions are compared with experimental data and a literature model, demonstrating the reliability of the developed model. Introduction Accurate knowledge of phase behavior in water-hydrocarbon systems, especially in the presence of salt and/or organic inhibitor is crucial to the design and operation of oil and gas pipelines and production/processing facilities. The application of extended sub-sea gathering networks and the transportation of unprocessed well-streams are favorable options for reducing field development and operational costs. These lines will convey a mixture of multi-phase fluids, including mixed electrolyte produced water and hydrocarbons. One serious concern is that these pipelines and production/processing facilities are prone to hydrate formation, giving rise to pipeline blockage, operational problems and other safety concerns. These can be avoided by either operating outside the hydrate region or transporting hydrates as slurry. The economics of the first option is largely dependent on the accurate determination of the hydrate phase boundary, whereas the amount of hydrates to be transferred could be the main factor in the success of the second option.[1] Many models have been developed that are able to predict the phase equilibria of mixtures containing both electrolyte and non-electrolyte compounds. This is usually done by either introducing complex mixing rules to an equation of state or by coupling the equation of state (short-range interactions) with a Debye-Hückel (D-H) electrostatic term (long-range interactions). The available models are normally developed for electrolyte solutions in the absence of organic inhibitors (e.g., alcohols). However, in cases where the inhibition effect of the produced saline water is not adequate for avoiding gas hydrate formation, organic inhibitors (e.g., methanol, glycol) are added to the pipelines, resulting in a system containing both salt and organic inhibitor. In these cases, it is necessary to take into account the hydrate inhibition effect of combined salt and organic inhibitor. The simplest possible solution is to assume that the combined effect of salts and organic inhibitors on the water activity is the sum of their separate effects. Nasrifar et al.[2] showed that additivity of activities could be assumed if the interaction between the salt and organic inhibitor is neglected. Later, Jager et al.[3] suggested that theoretical models must properly account for the interaction of all species in the water solution in order to predict the effect of mixed inhibitors correctly.



 It is generally accepted that the volume of natural gas contained in the world's gas hydrate accumulations greatly exceeds that of known gas reserves. There is also growing evidence that natural gas can be produced from gas hydrates with existing conventional production technology. Advancements in nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR) logging and wireline formation testing have allowed for the characterization of gas hydrate reservoirs at the pore scale. Integrated NMR and formation testing studies from northern Canada and Alaska have yielded valuable insight into how gas hydrates are physically distributed in sediments and the occurrence and nature of pore fluids (i.e., free-water along with clay- and capillary-bound water) in gas hydrate-bearing reservoirs. Information on the distribution of gas hydrate at the pore scale has provided invaluable insight on the mechanisms controlling the formation and occurrence of gas hydrate in nature along with new data on gas hydrate reservoir properties (i.e., porosities and permeabilities) needed to accurately predict gas production characteristics for various gas hydrate production methods.   Introduction - Gas Hydrate Reservoir Models In recent years significant progress has been made in addressing key issues controlling the formation and occurrence of gas hydrate in nature. One of the most important factors that contribute to the formation of gas hydrate is the physical properties of the host reservoir. The study of gas-hydrate samples indicates that the physical nature of in-situ gas hydrates is highly variable (reviewed by Sloan and Koh, 2008). Gas hydrates are observed (1) occupying pores of coarse-grained rocks; (2) nodules disseminated within fine-grained rocks; (3) a solid substance, filling fractures; or (4) a massive unit composed mainly of solid gas hydrate with minor amounts of sediment. Most gas hydrate field expeditions, however, have shown that the occurrence of concentrated gas hydrate is mostly controlled by the presence of fractures and/or coarser grained sediments in which gas hydrate fills fractures or is disseminated in the pores of sand-rich reservoirs (Collett, 1993; Dallimore and Collett, 2005; Riedel et al., 2006; Collett et al., 2008a, 2008b; Hutchinson et al., 2008; Park et al., 2008; Yang et al., 2008; Fujii et al., 2008). Torres et al., (2008) concluded that hydrate grows preferentially in coarse-grained sediments because lower capillary pressures in these sediments permit the migration of gas and nucleation of hydrate. The growth of gas hydrate in clay-rich sediments, however, is more poorly understood and appears to be limited to mostly massive occurrences.   URTeC 1579782



 The paper presents an experimental investigation on formation rate of methane hydrates. The aim of this study is development of production plant of natural gas hydrates. Formation rate of methane hydrates under constant pressure, which is considered to be suitable condition in the continuous formation process, was obtained by this experiment. In this paper, driving force for hydrate growth under the condition is defined by the supercooling at higher stirring rate. It is also shown that experimental pressure depends on formation kinetics. INTRODUCTION Natural gas hydrates are expected as unconventional natural gas resources because the amount is estimated at rich by worldwide distribution. One of the characteristics of hydrates is a high accumulation of gases. Therefore the usage of gas hydrate can be a new way of transportation and storage. In respect of the transportation and storage by using gas hydrate, object of the process is not only natural gas digged as hydrate but also as conventional gas state. It is necessary to develop the technology to produce rapidly natural gas hydrate in large quantities and also the technology of re-gasification. Consequently, the investigation about formation rate and dissociation rate of gas hydrate is important for industrialization. The formation apparatus of gas hydrate in laboratories are usually batch process that certain amount of gas and water are enclosed in a reaction vessel in advance. For industrial usage such that the production plant of natural gas hydrate, continuous process is indispensable. Therefore a semi-batch apparatus which could continuously supply gas during the formation period was used in order to obtain the formation rate of gas hydrate, In this paper, hydrate from methane gas was studied as a fundamental investigation since methane is a major content of natural gases.



 Seismic recognition technologies are widely adopted in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields. There are significant physical property contrasts between the gas hydrate, including its entrapped gas zone, and host rocks. This allows identification for them with seismic techniques. The previous research findings prove that acoustic methods are highly effective in determination of hydrates distributed widely. This is because hydrates have strong acoustic reflection effect. Their acoustic velocities are as twice as those of seafloor sediments. If the sediment underlying a hydrate entraps natural gas, its acoustic velocity will become much lower, resulting in vivid characteristics of reflections. This paper firstly discusses the seismic signatures of hydrates based on a physical model. The gas hydrate possibly presented in the target is then identified from seismic data by seismic phase characteristics and AVO attributes.



Since their initial discovery in the 1960’s, gas hydrates have been considered to be an important potential source of unconventional natural gas. Significant progress has been made relative to our understanding of the geologic and engineering controls on the ultimate energy potential of gas hydrate; however, more work is required to realize the promise of gas hydrates as a future energy source. Gas hydrates have been encountered, recovered or inferred to exist in numerous sedimentary basins in Arctic permafrost settings, regions of alpine permafrost, marine sediments of outer continental margins and in deep lakes. Despite the great abundance of potential gas hydrate resources in the world, a large portion of these resources reside in clay-rich sediments and fracture dominated reservoir systems, and are not generally considered producible with existing technology, but may have future potential with the emergence of new technologies. For a large portion of the world, gas hydrate in sand reservoirs have become a viable production target and the focus of the first production testing efforts. Production tests in Arctic Canada (Mackenzie Delta) and Alaska have shown that gas can be produced from highly-concentrated gas hydrate accumulations in coarse-grained (i.e., sand rich) reservoir systems with conventional production technologies. Production can be achieved through the depressurization method and by more complex methods such as molecular substitution (e.g., CO2-CH4 exchange). In 2013, the gas hydrate production test was conducted in a marine setting in the offshore of Japan. An additional test was conducted in Japan in 2017 to further evaluate alternative well completion technologies. Also in 2018, China initiated a 60-day gas hydrate production test in the Shenhu region of the South China Sea. This report reviews the results of gas hydrate engineering and production testing studies associated with the Mallik, Mount Elbert, and Iġnik Sikumi projects in northern Canada and Alaska. The results of the marine gas hydrate producing testing efforts in the Nankai Trough (Japan) and in the South China Sea (China) are also summarized.



Quantitative prediction of gas hydrate formation risk is critical for the successful implementation of risk-based approaches to hydrate management in subsea production. Here we use a high pressure, stirred, automated lag-time apparatus and a high pressure acoustic levitator to experimentally obtain smooth probability distributions describing stochastic hydrate formation. Robust, repeatable hydrate nucleation and growth rate probability distributions as a function of induction time and subcooling are measured for various gases, shear rates and inhibitor dosages in systems with interfacial areas ranging from (0.1 to 60) cm2. The results reveal that new engineering models can be used to reliably predict hydrate formation probability. Importantly these new models have solid theoretical foundations which enables them to be generalized with confidence to industrial systems.



Natural gas (NG), which normally consists chiefly of methane, is a widely distributed resource, and until recently was generally thought to occur within the lithosphere as either a free or dissolved gas. During the 1960s, however, Soviet scientists began to recognize that NG could additionally occur in nature as a "solid gas:" that is, in a stable ice-like form. For historical reasons, this NGcontaining solid was referred to as "methane hydrate: '' though a more technically correct name for this compound is a water clathrate of natural gas. It is now recognized that methane hydrates can occur in two basically different environments where the relatively low temperatures and high pressures necessary for hydrate formation are widespread. The first area where these zones of hydrate stability can occur is in or near terrestrial permafrost regions, which encompass vast areas of the world''s landmass. The second region where hydrate formation is favored covers more than 90% of the world''s ocean basins. The amount of NG trapped in the hydrate form has been estimated by some Russian workers as more than 1 x 10 18 m3 (STP) (Barraclough, 1980). The total worldwide energy consumption is currenlty about 7.6 x 10 l2 m3/yr gas equivalent. If we assume that only one-half of the Russian estimate is correct (0.5 x 10" m3), only 30% of this revised estimate can be produced (0.15 x 10 18 m3), and the worldwide energy consumption increases to 1 x lO 14 m3/yr gas equivalent, there is enough producible NG from this resource to supply the worldwide energy consumption for 1500 years. The logging results from two wells in different environments that penetrated methane hydrate are compared. The first well, Northwest Eileen State No. 2 (NW Eileen # 2), is located on the North Slope of Alaska. The second well, Hole 570, is located offshore in the Pacific Ocean about 60 km south of the coast of Guatemala in 1698 m of water. Estimates of the methane gas in a hydrate zone in each well were calculated from the logs as: Well Hydrate Thickness Gas Estimate NW Eileen # 2 9.0 m 412 x 106m3/km2 Hole 570 15.0 m 240-1400 x 106m3/km2 The logs from both wells are similar in character, clearly define the methane-hydrate zones and suggest existence of possible commercial natural gas deposits.



 A new method to predict incipient gas hydrate formation in systems containing an aqueous phase in the absence or presence of inhibitors is proposed. proposed. The method which is based on the statistical termodynamic model of van der Waais and Platteeuw for clathrates is implemented in a computational codes Results of several simulations are analysed and compared with experimental data from 67 systems of the literature and Petrobras fields, obtaining good agreement between calculated and observed dissociation pressures, chiefly in multicomponent hydrocarbon systems. pressures, chiefly in multicomponent hydrocarbon systems. Owing to its good performance, the method can be applied as a robust tool in process design or in field operations in which gas hydrate equilibrium calculations are necessary. Introduction Gas hydrates ( or simply hydrates) are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing two or more components joined hot by an ordinary chemical bond but by the complete enclosure of one type of molecule inside a suitable structure formed by another molecule. Since the discovery of the first hydrate, studies on these compounds have been purely academic and thus restricted to the scientific community. With the development of the US petroleum industry starting in the thirties, the study of hydrate formation gained momentum, particularly when Hammerschimidt proved that the pipeline clogging problems typically encountered during winter months were cased by the formation of hydrates rather than of ice, as had been thought previously. Innumerous researchers soon began studying this phenomenon and produced a number of predictive methods based on theories ranging from simple empirical predictive methods based on theories ranging from simple empirical correlations to the detailed microscopic study of intermolecular forces. Due to Brazil's climate, specifically to its high temperatures, hydrate formation in petroleum facilities had never presented a serious problem. However, with the steady advance of production activities into problem. However, with the steady advance of production activities into deeper and deeper waters, the possibility of low seafloor temperatures causing hydrates to form inside pipelines has increased substantially. Although the literature presents a number of predictive methods, at the time that these were proposed they were only compared against experimental data on simple gas systems. Their application to more complex gas systems, such as natural gas, may lead to serious errors. The purpose of this study was to optimize process design and operational procedure concerned with the formation of natural gas hydrates, by providing reliable predictions of the conditions under which the phenomenon will occur and which include the presence of inhibitors. A new predictive method based on van der Waais and Platteeuw's theory is proposed and implemented in FORTRAN ANSI 77 computational code. The proposed and implemented in FORTRAN ANSI 77 computational code. The results of several simulations are analyzed and compared with the experimental data on multicomponent mixtures available in the literature or obtained in Brazilian oil fields. SOME ASPECTS OF THE CRYSTALLINE STRUCTURE OF HYDRATES Hydrates crystallize into two types of structure, known as I and II.



. An analytical model that describes hydrate dissociation under thermal stimulation in porous media is presented. The model views the dissociation as a process in which gas and water are produced at a moving dissociation boundary. The boundary separates the dissociated zone containing gas and water from the undissociated zone containing the hydrate. A similarity solution to the conservation equations is derived, and results are presented in graphical forms that are useful in numerical computations. In particular, heat fluxes, temperature profiles, and gas pressure distributions are presented for two cases that simulate saturated-steam and hot-water thermal stimulation. A parametric study showed that the dissociation rate is a strong function of the thermal properties of the system and the porosity of the porous medium. The energy efficiency of the dissociation process, defined as the ratio of the heating value of the gas produced relative to the heat input, was also computed. For hydrate thermal stimulation, an energy efficiency value of about nine was found, which appears encouraging for natural gas production from hydrate. IntroductionSubstantial amounts of natural gas hydrates have been found in the earth's sediment beneath the permafrost in Arctic basins and in ocean-bottom sediments along the continental margins of the U.S. Because of this potential resource, the problems associated with the production of natural gas from these hydrate zones have become of greater interest to the hydrocarbon industry. Preliminary simulation studies have been performed for the production of natural gas from hydrate reservoirs through thermal injection, depressurization, and in-situ combustion. Apart from gas production modeling, few studies are available on the heat and mass-transfer rates accompanying hydrate dissociation. Kamath et al. and Kamath and Holder viewed heat transfer during hydrate dissociation as a nucleate boiling phenomenon, while Selim and Sloan viewed it as a moving-boundary ablation process. Experimental results acquired by Ullerich et al. on the dissociation of methane hydrates agreed well with predictions from the ablation model. The heat-transfer models presented by Kamath et al. and Selim and Sloan are useful in modeling pure hydrate dissociation processes. For gas hydrates in the earth's sediment, the heat and mass-transfer rates are strongly influenced by the surrounding sediment. In this paper, an analytical model that describes hydrate dissociation in sediment under thermal stimulation is presented. Results from the model are used to evaluate gas production from hydrate reservoirs by steam or hot-water thermal stimulation. Dissociation Model Consider a uniform distribution of hydrates in the porous medium in Fig. 1, which is initially at a uniform temperature Ti and occupies the semi-infinite region 0 less than x less than infinity. Initially, the hydrates are assumed to fill the entire porosity, phi, so that 1 - phi is the volume fraction of the sediment. At time t=0, the temperature at the boundary x=0 is raised to a new temperature, T0, that is higher than Ti and is held constant thereafter. Hydrate dissociation commences, and as a result, a moving interface that separates the water/gas region from the undissociated hydrate region exists at some distance x=chi(t). Thus, at any time t greater than 0, the water/gas phase [dissociated-hydrates zone (Zone I)] occupies the region 0 less than x less than chi(t), while the undissociated-hydrate zone (Zone II) occupies the region chi(t) less than x less than infinity. Once the hydrate-dissociation temperature is exceeded, the phase interface will move forward at a decreasing velocity. The interface velocity decreases because of the insulating effect of the increasing thickness of the dissociated zone and also because of the energy required to elevate the temperature of the matrix material and resulting gas and water. A sharp density change usually occurs in the pore-filling material across the phase interface. According to the law of mass conservation, the gas will be streaming or transpiring toward the accessible or heated surface. The surface heat flux is consumed in supplying energy (1) to heat the dissociated Zone I, (2) to heat the dissociated gas streaming toward the heated surface and the water resulting from the dissociation process, (3) to dissociate the hydrate at the moving interface, and (4) to heat the undissociated solid matrix. Consequently, the following temperature and pressure distributions develop in the system: (1) a temperature distribution TI(x,t) in Zone I with Td less than TI(x, t) less than T0; (2) a temperature distribution TII(x,t) in Zone II with Ti less than TII(x,t) less than Td; and (3) a pressure distribution p(x,t) for the hydrocarbon gas in Zone I with p0 less than p(x,t) less than pd. Here Td and pd represent the temperature and pressure at the dissociation front, assumed to be in thermodynamic equilibrium. Fig. 1 is a schematic of these distributions. The water resulting from the dissociation process is assumed to remain motionless and is retained within the pores of the dissociated zone. This assumption restricts the analysis to hydrate saturation values of about 0.3. For the sake of simplicity, we assume that the thermophysical properties of each phase are constant. We also neglect viscous dissipation, reversible work of compression, and inertial effects, and rule out the possibility of mutual or external energy transmission. With these restrictions, the differential mass, momentum, and energy balances describing the dissociation process may be written as (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) Eqs. 1 and 2 are the continuity equation and the momentum equation (Darcy's law) of the gas in the dissociated phase. Eqs. 3 and 4 are the energy balances for the dissociated and undissociated phases, respectively. Eq. 5 is the equation of state (EOS) of the gas, assuming ideal behavior; this may be easily modified through use of a more sophisticated EOS or compressibility factors. In the energy balance for the dissociated zone, it has been assumed that the transpiring gas always acquires the local temperature of the sediment--i.e., it reaches an equilibrium heat-transfer condition with the solid. In a similar investigation dealing with the mechanism of heat exchange in sweat-cooled porous materials, Weinbaum and Wheeler demonstrated that the local gas and solid temperatures are nearly indistinguishable throughout the porous structure. The boundary and initial conditions associated with the above equations are (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) SPERE P. 245^



 Extensive studies have been conducted on hydrate formation in gaseous systems; however, little information is available on hydrate risks in oil systems. This is partly due to difficulties in measuring the hydrate stability zone in oil systems, as well as problems associated with compositional representation of such systems. Furthermore, it is reported that hydrate formation pose less risks in oil systems than gas systems, partly due to the presence of natural inhibitors, formation of water in oil emulsions, and possibly oil wet pipeline walls. However, little is known of the nature and mechanism of the natural inhibition and the response of the system to an increase in the water cut. In this communication, we present details of two experimental set-ups specifically designed to study the hydrate risks in oil systems. They include a visual high pressure kinetic rig for measuring the hydrate stability zone, crystal size, distribution and the rate of hydrate formation and dissociation, and a glass micromodel for visual observation of hydrate formation / dissociation in micro-scale. We report some of the recently obtained experimental results using the above experimental equipment. The results show that the existing techniques should be revisited for generating reliable data in oil system. We also demonstrate that proper characterization of the heavy end and taking into account the possibility of wax formation may play a role in improving the reliability of predictive techniques. The results provide better understanding and evaluation of risks associated with hydrate formation in pipelines carrying oil. Introduction As deepwater offshore production is widely developing, the problem of flow assurance becomes of major importance. In deepwater pipelines, where reservoir fluids including gas, oil and water with dissolved salts and organic inhibitors are flowing together at low temperatures and high pressures, the formation of hydrates may occur leading to pipeline restriction and blockage. In order to plan the pipeline design and operation and prediction of the hydrate phase boundary, using thermodynamic models is required. The development and validation of the models relies upon experimental study of gas hydrates.[1] There is a significant bank of information available for gas systems that form gas hydrates.[1,2] However, there is significantly less information for oil systems, particularly real reservoir fluids. On the other hand, hydrate formation is greatly influenced by the nature of the reservoir fluid produced. The presence of water/oil (W/O) emulsion greatly aids the transportation of hydrates as slurry in deepwater offshore production and transportation and can solve the problem of flow assurance, partly due to the presence of natural inhibitors (e.g., asphaltene), formation of water in oil emulsions and possibly oil wet pipeline walls. Therefore, studying thermodynamics and kinetics of hydrate formation/ dissociation in oil systems is of great interest.  In this communication, a review is made on factors affecting thermodynamics of hydrate formation in oil systems. A thermodynamic model which is capable of predicting different scenarios such as hydrate and wax formation in reservoir fluids is then introduced and capability of the model is investigated. The details of two experimental set-ups specifically designed to study the hydrate risks in oil systems, including a visual high pressure kinetic rig for measuring the hydrate stability zone, crystal size and distribution and the rate of hydrate formation and dissociation and a glass micromodel for visual observation of hydrate formation/ dissociation in micro-scale are presented. Some of the recently experimental results using the above experimental equipments are also presented. The results can provide better understanding of hydrate formation/ dissociation in oil systems.



This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris Carpenter, contains highlights of paper OTC 28578, “Quantitative Ranking and Development of Hydrate Antiagglomerants,” by Shane A. Morrissy, Temiloluwa O. Kuteyi, Mike L. Johns, Eric F. May, SPE, and Zachary M. Aman, SPE, University of Western Australia, and Stuart F. McKay, SPE, Woodside Energy, prepared for the 2018 Offshore Technology Conference Asia, Kuala Lumpur, 20–23 March. The paper has not been peer reviewed. Copyright 2018 Offshore Technology Conference. Reproduced by permission. A common hydrate-management strategy involves the use of large volumes of thermodynamic inhibitors (THIs) to operate outside the hydrate-stability region. However, this strategy represents significant capital expenditure and operating costs. Low-dosage hydrate inhibitors (LDHIs), in the form of kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) and antiagglomerants (AAs), present an economical alternative to THIs. In this study, a quantitative micromechanical force (MMF) has been deployed to study the performance of seven industry AAs. The results illustrate that an effective AA is one that lowers the cohesive forces between hydrate particles. Introduction AAs prevent hydrate agglomeration of a steady-state hydrate slurry. Hydratephilic AAs are surfactants that adsorb to the hydrate/oil interface in preference to the water/oil interface. Current operating experience suggests that AAs may be unsuited to the high water cuts that are characteristic of late field life. A successful hydrate AA lowers the cohesive force or surface free energy of hydrate particles to prevent agglomeration. Rocking cells and high-pressure visual autoclaves provide a semiquantitative assessment of hydrate blockage. However, a knowledge gap exists with regard to whether current industry AAs actually lower hydrate interparticle cohesive and surface free energy. Techniques to deconvolute the mechanism of the action of AAs are required to better understand how AAs affect hydrate blockage. Experimental Procedure Micromechanical Hydrate Cohesive Force. A third-generation MMF apparatus was used to measure the cyclopentane hydrate interparticle cohesive force. The MMF uses cyclopentane to create Structure II cyclopentane hydrates, the same hydrate structure present in the field. The cohesive-force-measurement technique was adapted from previous re-search on hydrate cohesion and asphaltene cohesion. Interfacial Tensiometry. An optical interfacial tensiometer was used to measure the interfacial tension (IFT) between water and oil phases at ambient pressure and room temperature. A hooked needle with the AA prepared in paraffin oil was placed in a bulk phase of deionized water. The resolution of this apparatus is typically ±1 mN/m and the threshold sensitivity is 1 mN/m. Typically, surfactant-free systems will rap-idly reach equilibrium within 1 minute of creating an oil droplet in water. Conversely, the presence of a surfactant may decrease the IFT as a function of time, asymptotically approaching a steady-state value. Because the AAs studied contain surfactant functionality, each IFT was measured for at least 20 minutes, after which point the IFT was not observed to change with time. Each data point represents an average of at least four independent trials.



 This paper describes the formulation and basis of the microcomputer, program, HYDRATE.BAS, which calculations hydrate formation conditions of natural gases. The program is based on the Carson and Katz program is based on the Carson and Katz method for hydrate predictions. It is designed for pressures in the range 100 to 2000 psia (700 to 1400 kPa), and temperatures between 32 and 80 degrees F (0 and 26 degrees C). Comparisons with published experimental data indicate average pressure deviations of +/- 30 psi (200 kPa) and temperature deviations, is of +/- 2 degrees F ( 1 degrees C). The program is written in BASIC, for Osborne 1*, IBM PC** and compatibles. PC** and compatibles. Introduction Hydrates are solid crystalline inclusion-compounds (clathrates) which contain two components, referred to as host and guest. Free water molecules form a metastable crystal lattice, which is stabilized by light gas molecules (C1 through C4 paraffins, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide) occupying the crystal cavities. * Osborne 1 is a trademark of Osborne Computer Corporation ** IBM PC is a trademark of International Business Machines, Inc. Molecules larger than butanes cannot fit into the cavities and thus do not form hydrates. Hydrates cause problems by plugging pipelines, valves, and other process pipelines, valves, and other process equipment. Proper design, therefore, includes, predicting the conditions under which predicting the conditions under which hydrates may form. Several methods are available for predicting potential hydrate forming conditions: - experimental - graphical - graphical-analytical - analytical Early hydrate prediction methods are based on graphical techniques. Carson and Katz produced the first reliable hydrate produced the first reliable hydrate prediction method based on gas composition. prediction method based on gas composition. Campbell describes both graphical and graphical-analytical methods. The analytical technique developed by Parrish and Prausnitz depends on the mechanisms of statistical thermodynamics, and is probably the most widespread method in use probably the most widespread method in use today. Hydrate packages that are available on the market today are based on the Ng-Robinson modifications of the Parrish-Prausnitz technique. Normally the programs run on a timesharing/mainframe system. Recently, this method has also become able for microcomputers. P. 213



There is a growing interest in natural gas hydrate mainly due to the possibility that it may represent a large energy resource, potentially have an impact on global climate change and play a role in submarine slope failures. It is therefore of great importance to be able to identify the occurrence of in-situ gas hydrates and accurately assess their volume within the host sediments. The evaluation of gas hydrate volumes is dependent on a number of parameters, including the areal extent of the hydrate occurrence, reservoir thickness, porosity of reservoir and degree of hydrate saturation. Normally in hydrocarbon exploration of conventional oil and gas fields, the analysis of core samples, obtained while drilling, are used to evaluate this petrophysical data. However, because hydrate disassociates and loses gas as it is brought up to normal surface temperatures and pressure, it becomes problematical in obtaining meaningful porosity and saturation values from recovered cores. Therefore, downhole well logging techniques are used in order to obtain petrophysical data. These techniques have, in the main, been adapted from the standard hydrocarbon industry methods of determining porosity and saturations using resistivity and acoustic log data, together with the deterministic relationships such as the Archie (resistivity) and Wyllie (acoustic) time average equations. Deterministic formation evaluation methods follow a step-by-step approach to arrive at one solution for each depth step. In successive steps, the lithology, porosity, and saturations are determined. Thus the analytical parameters are fixed and the solutions unique. Another approach has been to use probabilistic statistical software such as the Mineral Solver module within the Interactive Petrophysics™ software package. Probabilistic evaluation, computes a solution from an assigned mineral model and all the available logs simultaneously, using statistical methods. This probabilistic method has been applied to log data acquired from the ODP/IODP (marine) and the Mallik (permafrost) exploration wells, successfully generating gas hydrate saturation estimates, with comparable results to Archie saturation estimates at high saturations. Further investigation is required to fully determine the potential of probabilistic methods for gas hydrate evaluation.INTRODUCTIONSome of the significant questions for gas hydrate research include: Where do the gas hydrates occur? How much gas hydrate is there? Why and how do gas hydrates occur in particular geological settings?Well logging and subsequent log analysis form crucial roles in answering some of these questions, particularly in evaluating the quantity of gas hydrates present in hydrate bearing sediments.Gas hydrates are combinations of water and natural gas that, under certain conditions of high pressures and low temperatures, form solid, ice like substances, forming as cement in the pore spaces of sediment (Figure 1) as well as in layers and nodules of pure massive hydrate (Booth et al., 1998; Clennell et al., 2000; Camps et al., 2006). They naturally occur within a limited range of pressures and temperatures, found in some ocean sediments and in on-shore sediments of the permafrost regions of the Arctic (Kvenvolden et al., 2001).



Production and transportation of unprocessed wellstreams is economically an attractive option and may significantly enhance the development of many marginal oil and gas fields. These pipelines may however be prone to hydrate formation which potentially can block the pipe and lead to serious operational problems. These can be avoided by either preventing hydrate formation or allowing the formation of hydrates, but preventing their aggregation and transporting them as slurry. The first approach is the current practice in the industry and it can be more cost effective by determining the hydrate phase boundary more reliably. in the oil and gas industry, n-butane is generally regarded as the heaviest hydrate forming compound, and anything heavier than that as a non-hydrate former. Oil and gas condensate systems contain a significant amount of intermediate/heavy hydrocarbon compounds which recently have been found to be hydrate formers. The water produced with oil also contains dissolved salts which inhibit hydrate formation to some extent. If the formation of hydrates is to be avoided, information on the effect of heavy compounds and salts on the hydrate boundary is required. Recent studies suggest that some chemicals at low concentrations may modify the growth of hydrate crystals, preventing their aggregation and hence allowing their transportation as slurry. if the use of crystal growth modifiers are to be considered, it is required to determine the amount of hydrates to be transported as a slurry. This paper reviews briefly the effect of electrolyte solutions, benzene, and methyl cyclo-pentane (MCP) on the hydrate free zone and concentrates on new methods and equipment for measuring the amount and composition of different phases in hydrate forming conditions. An in house numerical model was successfully used for prediction of the hydrate free zone and compositional data. The developed model can be used as an engineering tool to determine the hydrate free zone for transportation of unprocessed well streams in sub-sea pipelines and gathering networks and also the amount of hydrates to be transferred as slurry where the use of growth modifiers is considered as an option. IntroductionGas hydrates are inclusion compounds in which certain compounds stabilise the cages formed by hydrogen bonded water molecules under favourable conditions of pressure and temperature. For hydrates to remain stable, a minimum fraction of these cavities have to be filled with guest molecules. The most common hydrate structures are those of structure I and ii, where each structure is composed of a certain number of large and small cavities formed by water molecules. For a molecule to enter a cavity, its size should be smaller than a certain value. Large molecule guests which can enter only a limited number of large cavities require smaller "help gas" molecules to mainly fill some smaller cavities sufficiently to stabilise hydrate crystals. Gas hydrates have been reviewed in depth by Sloan. The application of extended subsea gathering networks and transportation of unprocessed wellstreams are amongst favourable options for reducing field development and operational costs. These lines will convey a cocktail of multiphase fluids, including mixed electrolyte produced water, and liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons. A good knowledge of the behaviour of these complex systems is essential for confident and economical design and operation of associated fields, pipelines and processing facilities. P. 157^



 Gas hydrates are recognized as a massive source of fossil fuel that could be far in excess of conventional hydrocarbon resources.  The evaluation of formations that contain gas hydrates is therefore receiving renewed emphasis through contemporary petrophysical technology.  A key factor is the use of logging-while-drilling (LWD) to sense hydrate-bearing intervals before drilling-induced thermal invasion and thence hydrate dissociation take hold.  Recent advances in LWD technology have brought most of the potentially diagnostic tools onto the drill string, so there is little disadvantage in not having a wireline database.  Moreover, modern tools have a sharper spatial resolution and a greater capability for differential depths of investigation.  Petrophysical models have to be capable of distinguishing hydrates from ice in permafrost regions: this complication does not exist subsea.  In general, pristine hydrates are characterized by high resistivity, low sonic transit time, and low density, possibly in conjunction with gas shows from mud logs.  High neutron porosity can also be diagnostic away from permafrost.  Other tools with a role to play include dielectric tools, for distinguishing ice from methane hydrate; electrical imagers, for identifying the mode of hydrate occurrence; and magnetic resonance tools, for contributing to estimates of hydrate volume by difference, because of hydrate invisibility.  These matters are important, because a hydrate-supported structure will not produce as well as a framework-supported structure due to pore collapse with dissociation.  The evaluation process is guided by some laboratory measurements of recovered and synthetic hydrates and sand/hydrate mixtures.  The methodology is illustrated by field examples.  Although formation evaluation for gas hydrates remains largely semi-quantitative, current interests are driving towards interpretation protocols that target estimates of producibility.  Indicators are provided as to how this objective might be best approached. Introduction Gas hydrates or clathrates were discovered in 1810 by the British chemist Sir Humphry Davy.  They were first sampled in deep ocean sediments in the Black Sea (Yefremova and Zhizhchenko, 1974) and subsequently through the Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) (Kvenvolden and Barnard, 1983).  Today, they are recognized as being present in all continents.  Indeed, it has been estimated that gas hydrates contain hydrocarbon resources, typically methane, considerably in excess of the global fossil-fuel energy base.  Their potential energy value has assumed a high profile, because it brings together issues of Earth, sea, environment, climate and society. Because it is technically difficult and expensive to sample preserved gas hydrates for laboratory measurement, well logs are especially important in the evaluation of gas-hydrate-bearing intervals.  The use of well logs to evaluate gas hydrate formations has received attention over the past 25 years in a manner that was naturally conditioned by the logging technology of the day.  Mathews (1986) set out the log signature of methane hydrate using information from the DSDP and the North Slope of Alaska.  Subsequent analyses include Prensky (1995), Collett (1998a), Lovell et al. (2002), and Murray et al. (2005). This paper provides a contemporary overview of the petrophysical evaluation of formations that contain gas hydrates with a view to their exploitation.  The description adopts the terminology of the Petroleum Resource Management System (PRMS) published by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and others (March 2007).  Thus, for example, the term "hydrocarbon volume?? quantifies a gas volume in place referred to standard conditions of 60 °F and one atmosphere.  On the other hand, the term "resources?? relates to that portion of an in-place volume (at standard conditions) that is considered to be recoverable and that may be undiscovered or discovered.  Yet again, the term "reserves?? relates to resources that are discovered, remaining (in the subsurface), recoverable, commercial, and for which there exists a development plan.



Natural gases under pressure form crystalline hydrates with water.Experimental data are reported on four-phase equilibrium for themethane-propane-water, methane-pentane-water, and methane-hexane-water systems.Temperatures and pressures for equilibrium between gas, water-rich liquid,hydrocarbon-rich liquid, and hydrate were measured, as well as the percentagesof methane and propane in the hydrate. The data indicate that natural gashydrate behaves as a solid solution and that pentanes and heavier hydrocarbonsdo not enter into the solid phase. Vapor-solid equilibrium constants arepresented that permit the approximation of the conditions for hydrateformation, from the composition of a gas.IntroductionNatural gas hydrates have been the object of considerable research in recentyears, because of the trouble they have caused in the natural-gas andnatural-gasoline industries. Natural gas hydrates are white crystallinecompounds of water and gas, which, under pressure, exist at temperaturesconsiderably above the freezing point of water. Because of the relatively hightemperatures at which the hydrates exist, they become a nuisance inhigh-pressure gas operations where water is present, since their formationcauses partial or complete plugging of valves and pipes. From a practicalstandpoint, the trouble incident to hydrate formation has been solved bydehydration of the gas before it enters the plant or pipe line, or by otherremedial measures.Extensive work on gas hydrates in the latter part of the nineteenth century,by Villard and others, gave data on methane hydrate and on ethane hydrate.Schroeder summarized these theoretical studies, Hammerschmidt introduced theinformation on gas hydrates to the gas industry, and Deaton and Frost gathereda considerable number of data on the behavior of natural gas hydrates. Recentpapers have extended both the data and the theory of these hydrates.At present, data are available on temperatures and pressures of hydrateformation for pure methane, ethane, propane, n-butane, methane-ethane mixtures,methane-propane mixtures, methane-butane mixtures, and some 15 natural gases,all in the presence of excess water. However, up to the present time no methodhas been available for predicting the temperature at given pressures or thepressure at given temperatures at which natural gases will form hydrates ifsaturated with water.T.P. 1371



Experimental data are presented for hydrate formation conditions for gasmixtures of carbon dioxide and methane. Equilibrium constants for carbondioxide, defined as the mole fraction of carbon dioxide in the gas phase (drybasis) divided by the mole fraction of carbon dioxide in the hydrate (drybasis), were calculated using the equilibrium constants for methane developedin an earlier paper.IntroductionA series of papers have been written on gas hydrates, giving temperaturesand pressures at which hydrates would form. Vapor-solid equilibrium constantshave been developed for methane, ethane, propane and iso-butane by which it ispossible to compute for a specific gas mixture the temperature and pressure atwhich hydrates will form.Carbon dioxide is present in many natural gases in concentrations usuallyfrom 0.1 to 2.0 per cent. It also forms a gas hydrate with water and presumablyenters the solid solution when present with a natural gas which is forming ahydrate. The equilibrium constant giving the ratio of the concentration ofcarbon dioxide in the gas phase to the concentration in the solid phase isrequired for including the effect of the carbon dioxide when computing theconditions for hydrate formation.Direct determination of the concentration of carbon dioxide in solid hydraterequires a difficult separation to be made. Therefore, this research resortedto the measurement of the temperature and pressure at which specific mixturesof methane and carbon dioxide would form hydrates. From the equilibriumconstants previously mentioned for methane, it is possible to compute theequilibrium constant for carbon dioxide, without measurement of the compositionof the solid phase.Fig. 1 shows the conditions at which methane and carbon dioxide formhydrates.T.P. 2578



:The capital costs of natural gas hydrate (NGH) and liquified natural gas (LNG) are compared, for the transport of 400 MMscf/d (about 4 billion Sm3 per year) of natural gas for a distance of 5500 km. The NGH chain was found to cost at least one-quarter less than the LNG chain. Independent studies in Norway, Canada and Russia have shown that frozen hydrates at atmospheric pressure remain stable long enough to make long-distance transport of natural gas in the form of hydrate technically feasible. INTRODUCTIONThe demand for natural gas in the world is increasing. Two regions are expected to continue to dominate the increase in gas demand; Europe and Asia Pacific (Commichau 1994, MeIIbye 1994, Voigt 1994). Large natural gas resources, however, are not located near the main population centers in the two regions. The transportation of natural gas over increasingly longer distances will consequently be required in Europe and Asia Pacific. The development of the natural gas industry in the next 5-15 years is 1ikely to be dominated by costs, as evident from statements by Exxon''s Voigt "The industry must continue to reduce project costs, keep gas competitive, and obtain prices in line with full market value" by Mobil''s Commichau "The gas industry faces tremendous challenges, which are mainly of an economic nature" and by Statoil''s MeUbye " ... that increasing volumes have to be transported over increasing distances ... can only be profitable if costs are reduced and prices are increased." Large-scale transport of natural gas is done in pipelines and by ship in liquified form. The cost of natural gas transport is such that pipelines are used for distances up to a few thousand kilometers, while transport of liquified natural gas (LNG) by ship is used for greater distances.



 A major challenge in offshore development is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons. Managing solids such as hydrates is the key to the viability of developing a deepwater prospect. Common methods to prevent and reduce hydrate risks are generally based on injection of thermodynamic inhibitors to prevent hydrate formation or use of kinetic hydrate inhibitors to sufficiently delay hydrate nucleation/growth. Currently, the amount of inhibitor required is either calculated and/or determined based on lab experiments. The amount of inhibitor depends on various parameters, including, water cut, inhibitor loss to hydrocarbon phases, aqueous and non-aqueous fluid compositions, operating conditions. Generally a safety factor is considered and the resulting inhibitor is injected upstream without much downstream measurements. Despite the usual safety margins, gas hydrates are formed which could result in serious operational and safety concerns. This is mainly due to changes in the system conditions (e.g., rates and water cut) and/or malfunction of one of the equipment. In most cases, the amount of inhibitor is more than what is necessary and is not adjusted with seasonal changes, affecting CAPEX/OPEX. As a result of a joint industry project several novel techniques, based on downstream and online measurements have been developed, for: Monitoring the hydrate safety margin to optimise inhibitor injection rates. The system determines the amount of inhibitor in the aqueous phase and the degree of inhibition they can offer. Detecting the initial hydrate formation, as an early warning system against hydrate blockage. The system detects the changes in the system due to hydrate formation with the aim of giving the operator enough time to prevent a blockage. The main advantages of the above techniques are minimising the amount of inhibitor required and preventing pipeline blockages due to hydrates, hence the cost of inhibitor, impact on the environment, cost of remedial actions and deferred production. A number of techniques have been investigated during this project with some techniques selected for prototype development. The developed prototypes have been tested. In this presentation, an update on the latest results of this new approach in flow assurance control is presented. Introduction The past decade has witnessed dramatic changes in the oil and gas industry with the advent of deepwater exploration and production. A major challenge in deep water field development is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons to the host platform or processing facilities. Managing solids such as hydrate, waxes, asphaltene and scale is the key to the viability of developing a deepwater prospect. The oil industry is facing a flow assurance issue with hydrate deposits in pipelines where hydrate often forms at inaccessible locations. One of the problems other than blockage is the movement of the hydrate plugs in the pipeline at high velocity which can cause rupture in the pipeline. Any blockage in an oil/gas pipeline due to hydrate is a serious threat to the economics of the operations and also personnel safety. The conventional ways to prevent and reduce hydrate risks in transfer line and process facilities is to remove one of the elements favouring hydrate formation. For example, thermal insulation and external heating techniques are used to remove the low temperature element. Water can be removed by dehydration of the natural gas using glycol system and lowering the operating pressure can reduce the tendency for hydrate to form in the production system. However, these conventional techniques may not be feasible for some fields especially in offshore and deepwater environment due to space limitation and high insulation or heating cost. The deepwater insulation costs are reported typically US$1 million per km of flowline (Sloan, 1998).



Technology Today Series articles provide useful summary information on both classic and emerging concepts in petroleum engineering. Purpose: To provide the general reader with a basic understanding of a significant concept, technique, or development within a specific area of technology. Introduction Gas clathrates (commonly called hydrates) are crystalline compounds thatoccur when water forms a cage-like structure around smaller guest molecules.Gas hydrates of interest to the natural gas hydrocarbon industry are composedof water and eight molecules: methane, ethane, propane, isohutane, normalbutane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide. Hydrate formation ispossible in any place where water exists with such molecules-in natural orartificial environments and at temperatures above and below 32 degrees F whenthe pressure is elevated. Hydrates are considered a nuisance because they blocktransmission lines, plug blowout preventers, jeopardize the foundations ofdeepwater platforms and pipelines, cause tubing and casing collapse, and foulprocess heat exchangers, valves, and process heat exchangers, valves, andexpanders. Common examples of preventive measures are the regulation ofpipeline water content, unusual drilling-mud compositions, and large quantitiesof methanol injection into pipelines. We encounter conditions that encouragehydrate formation as we explore more unusual environments for gas and oil,including deepwater frontiers and permafrost regions. permafrost regions.Hydrates act to concentrate hydrocarbons; 1 ft 3 of hydrates may contain asmuch as 180 scf of gas. Large natural reserves of hydrocarbons exist inhydrated form, both in deep oceans and in the permafrost. Evaluation of thesereserves is highly uncertain, yet even conservative estimates indicate thatthere is perhaps twice as much energy in hydrated form as in all otherhydrocarbon sources combined. While there is one commercial example of gasrecovery from hydrates, the problems of in-situ hydrate dissemination indeepwater/permatrost environments will prevent their cost-effective recoveryuntil the next century. Basic Structure Hydrates normally form in one of two small, repeating crystal structures,shown in Fig. 1. The two hydrate structures are formed from a basic"building block" water cavity that has 12 faces with 5 sides per face(512). Linking the vertices of the 512 cavities results in Structure 1, withinterstices of large cavities composed of 12 pentagons and 2 hexagons (512 62).Linking the faces of the 512 cavities results in Structure 2, with intersticesof large cavities composed of 12 pentagons and 4 hexagons (512 64). Details ofstructure are given in a recent monograph. Structure 1, a body-centered cubicstructure, forms with natural gases containing molecules smaller than propane;consequently Structure 1 hydrates are found in situ in deep oceans withbiogenic gases containing mostly methane, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide.Structure 2, a diamond lattice within a cubic framework forms when naturalgases or oils contain molecules larger than ethane but smaller than pentane;Structure 2 represents hydrates that commonly occur in production andprocessing conditions, as well as in the cases of gas seeps in shallow oceanenvironments. The newest hydrate, Structure H, is neglected in this overview;it is yet to be found outside the laboratory. Inside each structure cavityresides a maximum of one of the eight guest molecules. The cavity occupied is afunction of the size ratio of the guest molecule within the host cavity. To afirst approximation, the concept of "a ball fitting within a ball" isthe key to understanding many hydrate properties. Much more certainty existswith respect of properties. Much more certainty exists with respect of themolecular structure of hydrates than to the kinetic mechanism of hydrateformation; hydrate kinetics are currently at the forefront of research. On amacroscopic level, hydrate formation and dissociation may be considered using aphase diagram, such as Fig. 2. In this figure, pressure is plotted vs.temperature, with gas composition as a parameter, for methane/propane mixtures.Consider a gas of any composition given on a line in Fig. 2. At conditions tothe right of the line, a gas of that composition will exist in equi-ibrium withliquid water. As the temperature is reduced (or as the pressure is increased),hydrates will form from the gas and liquid at the line, so that three phases(hydrates/gas/liquid water) will be in equilibrium. With further reduction oftemperature (or increase in pressure), the fluid phase that is not in excess(normally water) phase that is not in excess (normally water) will beexhausted, so that to the left of the line the hydrate will exist with theexcess phase (normally gas). phase (normally gas). Note that all the conditionsgiven in Fig. 2 are for temperatures above 32 degrees F, and that pressuresalong the lines vary exponentially with temperature. This figure alsoillustrates the dramatic effect of gas composition on hydrate stability; as anyamount of propane is added to methane, the structure changes (Structure lStructure 2) to a hydrate with much wider stability conditions. Note the markeddecrease in pressure (or increase in temperature) needed to form hydrates, whenas little as l% propane is in the gas. Hydrates can result from eithersaturated gas or liquid hydrocarbon, without a free-water phase; thesetwo-phase conditions are relatively rare and, thus, not addressed in thisoverview. Three common methods are used to predict the three-phase conditionslike those of Fig. 2. They are, in order of increasing accuracy, thegas-gravity chart,2 the Katz Kj charts,3 and a statistical thermodynamicsmethod.4 The first two calculation methods may be done by hand; a computer isrequired for the third method, which may be used to predict most threephaseconditions with acceptable accuracy. Applications in the Petroleum Industry Inhibition/Dissociation. The four common means of inhibiting/dissociatinghydrates are (1) removing one of the components, either the hydrocarbon orwater; (2) heating the system beyond the hydrate formation temperature at apressure; (3) decreasing the system pressure below hydrate stability at atemperature; and (4) injecting an inhibitor, such as methanol or glycol, todecrease hydrate stability conditions, so that higher pressures and lowertemperatures will be pressures and lower temperatures will be required forhydrate stability. These techniques are called thermodynamic inhibition becausethey remove the system from thermodynamic stability by changes in composition,temperature, or pressure. As long as the system is kept pressure. As long asthe system is kept outside thermodynamic stability conditions, JPT P. 1414



This reference is for an abstract only. A full paper was not submitted for this conference.    A new process of transportation of Natural Gas using Gas Hydrate is presented as applicable to land transport in India. India's vast resources of stranded gas fields can be economically brought to the consumer via this technology. Current methodologies are discussed and an appropriate form is presented in the context of domestic road and rail networks. Formation, storage, transport and recovery issues are addressed. Economic viability is investigated. Formation and Transport are redesigned to suit domestic conditions of labor and road/rail system.



The storage of natural gas in hydrates has been investigated since it was discovered that they store large quantities of gas. Dtflerent storage methods have been suggested: either keeping hydrate under low temperature or under pressure. This work presents the results of experiments aimed at improving the quality of the produced hydrate in term of gas content per unit volume of water. We have tested and developed a new water-soluble chemical that promotes methane hydrate formation by reducing the interfacial tension properties of the water. A series of investigations identijied that, depending on the concentration, the effect of hydrate inhibiting agents such as sodium chloride, alcohols and Carbonyl Compounds on gas hydrate formation, can either promote or suppress formation of gas hydrates in systems of water and natural gas. It was also proven that growth rates of a crystal face depend on how fast the heat is removed from the surface and this depends on the rate of heat transfer at the interface. The quality and quantity of hydrates were examined for their gas contents in a low temperature PVT apparatus. The total water conversion to hydrate in case of sH and sII hydrates was improved using hydrate promoters discovered during this work The rate of gas content per volume of hydrate was significantly improved from to 196 sm3/sm3 compared with 150-180 sm3/sm3 for pure water hydrate. IntroductionThe manufacture of natural gas hydrates (NGH), a stable solid comprising natural gas and water, is proposed as an alternative storage and transportation technology for natural gas instead of LNG and pipeline transportation. It is also valid to view this technology as a potential competitor to other energy forms such as LPG, fuel oil and coal. The manufacture of NGH requires only moderate cooling (typically -15 °C) and provides a stable solid when stored in an insulated environment. NHG's are readily decomposed into their hydrocarbon constituents and water at the point of delivery. Commercialisation of this technology in Western Australia could be undertaken via two principal routes. The first is to directly compete in the small to medium-scale domestic energy market. This market is currently serviced by road and rail transported LPG, fuel oil and increasingly LNG. This market may provide a low cost opportunity to test and commercialise the various NGH technologies. The economics screening study for a road based domestic energy market indicates that the cost of energy from NGH may compete with LPG and diesel delivering energy for a base case scenario at approximately A$6/GJ. The second route would be via large scale NGH production, competing directly in the global LNG market. This will be reviewed at a later date; some studies supporting this commercialisation route have already been carried out in Scandinavia but are not reviewed in this paper. Experimental ProceduresThe experimental apparatus consists of two equilibrium cells, the main cell is a synthetic sapphire providing 3dimensional visibility, and it has a total volume of 700 ml and is designed to handle pressures up 1500 bar.



Energy supply is an essential element of modern life and fossil fuels are expected to remain the dominant resource throughout the twenty first century and beyond. Natural gas, the most environmentally benign of fossil fuels, is on the upswing, boosted by recent successes in the exploitation of shale deposits. Natural gas hydrate accumulations which have been found worldwide on the slopes of continental shelves and arctic permafrost may further the use of natural gas by centuries. We propose a commercial exploitation scheme that involves hydraulically fractured horizontal wells with multiple treatments. A suite of wells would provide mechanisms of injection and/or production. INTRODUCTIONThe quest for energy resources is an ongoing process and while over the last two decades there has been a significant move towards alternatives to the traditional fossil fuels, natural gas is poised to become the premier fuel of the world economy both for its obvious environmental benefits but also because of its abundance. Shale gas was an energy source that was known but considered until recently inaccessible. As a result of the deployment of existing but newly tailored technology (e.g., horizontal wells with multiple transverse hydraulic fractures) shale has provided a large volume of new gas and, especially, almost unilaterally has doubled the world expected ultimate recovery. The success of shale gas has triggered by analogy a renewed interest in natural gas hydrates whose volume dwarfs any other energy source on earth. If techniques for their commercial recovery materialize and are economically proven, natural gas hydrate deposits have the potential to provide a huge amount of natural gas for human use. Considerable research has already been carried out for the characterization, composition and location of known deposits of natural gas hydrates.



 Constant energy molecular dynamics simulations are used to study the role of mass and heat transfer in the decomposition of methane hydrate. The rate of methane hydrate decomposition in a constant energy simulation is affected by heat and mass transfer arising from the breakup of the hydrate framework and release of the methane gas into the liquid phase. As the hydrate undergoes endothermic dissociation, temperature gradients are established between the remaining solid hydrate and the solution phases. Hydrate dissociation occurs in a concerted fashion with rows of sI cages parallel to the interface decomposing simultaneously. This leads to the release of large amounts of methane gas near the solid-liquid interface which can form bubbles that affect the rate of mass transfer between the phases. These phenomena can affect the rate of methane hydrate decomposition in natural methane hydrate reservoirs. I. Introduction Understanding the mechanism of methane hydrate decomposition under conditions similar to those of the hydrate sediments found on continental margins, under the ocean floor, and under the permafrost in the Arctic can assist in designing controlled methane recovery processes.[1-4] Hydrates can become unstable when heated or depressurized and this can lead to uncontrolled hydrate decomposition and catastrophic methane release. A sustained method of methane extraction from hydrate reservoirs is yet to be established. From experimental calorimetric measurements methane structure I (sI) clathrate has a heat of dissociation of 18.13 ± 0.27 kJ/mol (hydrate ? ice + gas) at 273 K and 101 kPa[5] and 54.4 ± 1.4 kJ/mol (hydrate? liquid + gas) at 292 K over a range of pressures up to 20 MPa.[6]



Two deepwater wells in widely separated geographical areas have experienced natural gas hydrate formation during drilling operations. In both cases, hydrates, ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water, plugged subsea equipment, causing difficulties in subsequent operations. The potential for hydrate formation merits consideration during planning and conducting of deepwater drilling operations.IntroductionDuring recent years, the petroleum industry has continued to extend and to expand deepwater exploration drilling efforts in many areas of the world. As drilling water depths increase, the potential for natural gas hydrate formation during drilling operations also increases. Hydrates are solid mixtures of natural gas and water that resemble dirty ice in appearance. Unlike ice, however, they can form at temperatures well above 32°F [0°C] when sufficient pressure is present. The higher seafloor hydrostatic pressures and lower environmental temperatures encountered in deepwater drilling increase the likelihood of hydrate formation in chokelines, drilling risers, blowout preventers (BOP's), and subsea wellheads. This paper describes two cases in which gas hydrates formed in subsea equipment during drilling operations, leading to costly delays and special remedial procedures.Properties of HydratesHydrates were first observed by Davy in 1810.1 They were introduced to the petroleum industry in 1934 by Hammerschmidt,2 who determined that these substances were responsible for the freezing of gas transmission lines. Hydrates are part of a group of substances known as clathrates because they consist of "host" molecules (water) that form a lattice structure that acts like a cage to entrap "guest" gas molecules. C1, C2, C3, C4, H2S, and CO2 are known to produce hydrates with water. Hydrocarbons larger than nC5 cannot form hydrates with water because of limited host-molecule cage size. A noteworthy property of hydrates is the amount of gas trapped in a given volume. One ft3 [0.028 m3] of hydrate can contain as much as 170 scf [4.8 std m3] of gas. When hydrates decompose because of reduced pressure and/or increased temperature, they can produce a large volume of gas. If hydrates decompose in a limited-volume, sealed container, such as a core barrel, very high pressures that can rupture the container can be generated.Combinations of pressure and temperature that allow natural gases and water to form stable hydrates have been determined accurately. A major factor that affects hydrate formation is the natural gas composition. Fig. 1,3 a result of early hydrate research, illustrates how gas composition, i.e., specific gravity, can affect the pressure/temperature range where hydrates are stable. A second factor that affects hydrate formation is the liquid-phase composition. Many substances, when added to the liquid phase, will depress hydrate formation temperature at a given pressure.Pressure/temperature conditions under which hydrates are stable are well-established in comparison with present knowledge concerning time and conditions needed to form a hydrate initially. Recent work in this area determined that the time to form a hydrate depends on several factors, including the degree of supercooling.4 Supercooling occurs when the actual temperature of a gas/liquid mixture is lower than hydrate-equilibrium temperature at a given pressure.Deepwater DrillingDrilling water-depth records increased greatly during the last decade; the number of wells drilled worldwide in deep water, however, is still limited (see Figs. 2 and 35-12). Through 1986, about 150 wells worldwide have been drilled safely in water more than 2,000 ft [610 m] deep.The potential of gas-hydrate formation during deepwater drilling operations has been recognized.1 The actual formation of hydrates, however, has not been reported. Possible explanations for the absence of reports are that (1) the industry's deepwater-well drilling experience is limited; (2) the likelihood of conditions favorable for hydrate formation - i.e., sufficient quantities of natural gas and water combined with the right pressure and temperature conditions - is low; and (3) the lack of understanding and recognition of hydrates leads to the attribution of well difficulties to other causes - e.g., barite settling and mechanical failures.Temperature GradientsWith increasing water depth, static seawater temperature normally declines in a roughly parabolic manner. For the Gulf of Mexico,14 the average seawater temperature (see Fig. 4) drops rapidly to about 48°F at 1,500 ft [9°C at 457 m]. Below this depth, the water temperature drops more slowly to about 40°F at 3,000 ft [4°C at 914 m].Case Histories of Deepwater Hydrate OccurrencesCase 1.Case 1 describes an occurrence of hydrates in a well located at 1,150-ft [350-m] water depth off the U.S. west coast with a seawater temperature of 45°F [7°C] at the mudline. Fig. 5 shows the casing strings in this wellbore. After 7-in. [17.78-cm] casing was run and cemented, the subsea casing hanger packoff was set and pressure tested. The BOP's were round-tripped from the ocean floor to change BOP ram sizes. While cement was drilled at the casing shoe, low gas units were detected. This increased sporadically. The BOP's were closed and casing pressure was increased to 1,300 psi [8964 kPa]. A through-drillstring noise log indicated that a gas influx was occurring from a sand at 7,750 ft [2362 m]. Gas was entering from the formation, channeling through the primary cement column, and migrating up the 7×9 5/8-in. [17.78×24.45-cm] casing annulus. The wellhead hanger packoff was leaking (even though it had been pressure tested), allowing the migrating gas to enter the freshwater mud at the subsea wellhead. An unsuccessful attempt to recover the BOP wear bushing while holding pressure on the well was made. Hydrates may have prevented the retrieval of the wear bushing. Recovery of the wear bushing would have allowed access to the leaking casing-hanger packoff. Attempts to pump mud into the 7×9 5/8-in. [17.78×24.45-cm] casing annulus with pressures up to 3,000 psi [20.7 MPa] were unsuccessful. (Subsequent investigation of the casing-hanger packoff revealed that the packoff had not reached its correct setting position, probably because of debris in the wellhead. The result of the improperly set packoff was a seal that held only from above and not from below.)To stop the gas influx, we decided to perforate the casing just above the gas sand and to pump heavyweight mud into the formation. To ensure a successful casing perforating job, the drillstring was severed and stripped up through the BOP's until the severed drillstring end was above the gas sand. A through drillstring perforating gun was then run to shoot the 7-in. [17.78-cm] casing just above the gas sand. The gas influx was killed by pumping 14.2-lbm/gal [1702-kg/m3] mud down the drillstring and into the formation at surface pressures up to 3,100 psi [21.4 MPa]. At the conclusion of the kill operation, approximately 7 days after gas was first detected, both the chokeline and the kill line were found plugged. Subsequent operations were hampered by the inability to use either line. Numerous attempts to unplug the chokeline and the kill line by applying pressure surges at the surface were unsuccessful.After cementing operations, which secured the wellbore, the BOP's were recovered. Hydrates and trapped gas were found in the chokeline and the kill line of the bottom eight riser joints.Case 1.Case 1 describes an occurrence of hydrates in a well located at 1,150-ft [350-m] water depth off the U.S. west coast with a seawater temperature of 45°F [7°C] at the mudline. Fig. 5 shows the casing strings in this wellbore. After 7-in. [17.78-cm] casing was run and cemented, the subsea casing hanger packoff was set and pressure tested. The BOP's were round-tripped from the ocean floor to change BOP ram sizes. While cement was drilled at the casing shoe, low gas units were detected. This increased sporadically. The BOP's were closed and casing pressure was increased to 1,300 psi [8964 kPa]. A through-drillstring noise log indicated that a gas influx was occurring from a sand at 7,750 ft [2362 m]. Gas was entering from the formation, channeling through the primary cement column, and migrating up the 7×9 5/8-in. [17.78×24.45-cm] casing annulus. The wellhead hanger packoff was leaking (even though it had been pressure tested), allowing the migrating gas to enter the freshwater mud at the subsea wellhead. An unsuccessful attempt to recover the BOP wear bushing while holding pressure on the well was made. Hydrates may have prevented the retrieval of the wear bushing. Recovery of the wear bushing would have allowed access to the leaking casing-hanger packoff. Attempts to pump mud into the 7×9 5/8-in. [17.78×24.45-cm] casing annulus with pressures up to 3,000 psi [20.7 MPa] were unsuccessful. (Subsequent investigation of the casing-hanger packoff revealed that the packoff had not reached its correct setting position, probably because of debris in the wellhead. The result of the improperly set packoff was a seal that held only from above and not from below.)To stop the gas influx, we decided to perforate the casing just above the gas sand and to pump heavyweight mud into the formation. To ensure a successful casing perforating job, the drillstring was severed and stripped up through the BOP's until the severed drillstring end was above the gas sand. A through drillstring perforating gun was then run to shoot the 7-in. [17.78-cm] casing just above the gas sand. The gas influx was killed by pumping 14.2-lbm/gal [1702-kg/m3] mud down the drillstring and into the formation at surface pressures up to 3,100 psi [21.4 MPa]. At the conclusion of the kill operation, approximately 7 days after gas was first detected, both the chokeline and the kill line were found plugged. Subsequent operations were hampered by the inability to use either line. Numerous attempts to unplug the chokeline and the kill line by applying pressure surges at the surface were unsuccessful.After cementing operations, which secured the wellbore, the BOP's were recovered. Hydrates and trapped gas were found in the chokeline and the kill line of the bottom eight riser joints.



 Gas production and transportation pose challenges for operators. Unprocessed gas streams in production and flow lines containing brine and hydrogen sulfide are particularly corrosive and susceptible to forming hydrates and scale deposits. Methanol is often added to such streams for hydrate prevention; however, methanol increases the corrosion tendencies of pipes and equipment because it can deactivate some Corrosion Inhibitors (CI) and adds oxygen to the system. As a result, if hydrates are controlled with methanol, the system requires extra amounts of properly selected corrosion inhibitors to counteract the oxygen induced accelerated corrosion. Corrosion rates of tubular steel exposed to sweet and sour brines were investigated. The sweet conditions contained carbon dioxide saturated brine, methanol, corrosion and gas hydrate inhibitors. Hydrogen sulfide was added to the system to create a sour environment. Methanol and hydrogen sulfide present in wet gas streams create an environment difficult for corrosion control; they accelerate corrosion rates to the point of rendering some commercial corrosion inhibitors unsuitable for corrosion protection. It was discovered that some gas hydrate inhibitors offer both, hydrates and corrosion protection. In addition it was found that the corrosion inhibiting properties of these gas hydrate inhibitors were enhanced in the presence of hydrogen sulfide. The dual action of the Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitor (LDHI) described here can limit or even eliminate Corrosion Inhibitors in highly corrosive methanol containing sour gas/water streams; thus, LDHI application improves production and transportation economy by replacing high volumes of methanol with less costly volumes of LDHI and providing additional operational savings on CI. Introduction Gas hydrates form when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. The water/guest crystallization process has been recognized since its discovery by Sir Humphrey Davy in 1810 it is well characterized and occurs with sufficient combination of pressure and temperature.[1] Light hydrocarbons, methane-to-heptanes, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide are the guest molecules of interest to the natural gas industry. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, gas hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 30°C (~85ºF). Formation of undesired gas hydrates can be eliminated or hindered by several methods. The thermodynamic prevention methods control or eliminate elements necessary for hydrate formation: the presence of hydrate forming gas, the presence of water, high pressure and low temperature. The elimination of any one of these four elements from the system would preclude the formation of hydrates. Heating and insulating transmission lines is a common mechanical solution to the hydrate problem often encountered in long subsea pipelines. Gas dehydration is another method of removing a hydrate component. However, in a practical oil and gas operation, water can be economically removed to a certain minimum vapor pressure only and residual water vapors are always present in a dry gas. Hydrate plugs in "dry" gas lines have been reported in the past.[2] Tubular failures due to corrosion and pipelines plugging with solid hydrates are major concerns for gas production and transport operators. Hydrate plugs can form in a short time, often within a few hours at hydrate formation pressure and temperature (p/T) conditions. Corrosion is a significantly slower process taking months or years to manifest itself with hardware failing. Nevertheless, both processes can result in catastrophic consequences if left unchecked.



This article is a synopsis of paper OTC 8541, "Use of Electrical Power in Control of Wax and Hydrates," by Finn Aarseth, Aker Maritime, originally presented at the 1997 Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 5-8 May.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 38567, "Hydrate Control During Deepwater Drilling: Overview and New Drilling Fluids Formulations," by H. Ebeltoft, Statoil; M. Yousif, IITRI Westport Technology Center; and E. Soergaard, Norsk Hydro, scheduled for presentation at the 1997 SPE Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition, San Antonio, Texas, 5-8 October.



Gas Hydrates - Occurance, Production and Economics Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Relatively large quantities of methane can be trapped in small volumes of hydrates, which represent a substantial in-situ natural reserve and resource in the shallow crust. In order to recover natural gas from this resource, it is necessary to dissociate the water structure and remove the gas. This is the reason why a new method is put forward: Hot Solvent Stimulation after Hydraulic Fracturing, with a method called S.T.S.F. The technique resembles Acid Fracturing but replaces Acid by Hot Solvent for the hydrate dissociation. Moreover, the method can be improved by drilling a second production well in order to control the solvent flow in the fracture and the gas production. The shape of the fracture can be either horizontal or vertical depending on the depth and the in-situ stresses. The following paper describes the development and applications of a heat transfer model, as well as the flow through the dissociated zone by leak-of f from the fracture. The analytical solution, obtained through the introduction of some simplifying assumptions, has two main advantages: it can be used without any digital computing equipment and can be easily handled by field engineers. Graphical results indicate that with S.T.S.F. method gas production and the energy efficiency ratio are three times as high as with any method. The paper ends with an attempt to analyse the economics of natural gas production from gas hydrates, assuming a satisfactory method of hydrates recovery. IntroductionOccurrences of gas hydrates are found at shallow depths of 200-1500m., where low temperatures 100-400K, and moderate pressures, 10 E.-2 to 2 -10 E.3 MPA, prevail. Gas hydrates are ice like crystalline inclusion substances composed of dodecahedral and tetracahedral water molecules cages, where methane and other light weight natural gas are trapped. Relatively large quantities of methane can be stored in small volumes of hydrates (1 cubic metre of 90% saturated hydrate contains about 180 standard cubic meters of methane). Since 1985 Soviet scientist have reported the existence of large deposits of natural gas hydrates in sediments under permafrost in Siberia (MARAGON, 1985). Later, gas hydrates were found under the permafrost in Alaska and Canada. More recently, extensive occurrences of hydrate deposits in ocean bottom sediments have been found along the North American and Mexican continental margin (KVENVOLDEN, 1988). P. 467



Deep Star funded a unique hydrate plug dissociation field test in a 900-psi 4-inch flowline gathering system operated by Kerr-McGee Corporation/Devon Energy in the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. In addition to DeepStar, the field test was supported by seven DeepStar member f m s (Amoco, ARCO, BP, Chevron, Kerr-McGee, Shell, and Texaco) by loan of equipment and analytical and computer services. During the field test, the formation of naturally occurring hydrate plugs was allowed in an existing flowline by stopping methanol injection. After formation, plugs were remediated by a unique one-sided depressurization. This reduction of the pressure on one side of the plug to below the hydrate decomposition curve results in a substantial pressure drop across the plug, as well as partial dissociation of the low pressure end of the plug that is outside the hydrate region. Plug formation and remediation were monitored by five data stations along the line. The pressure drop across a plug was monitored as a function of time to determine plug permeability while the plug was stationary. The pressure drop across a plug and the plug length were used to determine plug yield strength at breakaway. A dual-station gamma-ray system was used to measure slug and plug lengths and velocities at one data station. IntroductionHydrates are ice-like solids that form in hydrocarbon flowlines. Hydrates can deposit on the flowline inner wall and agglomerate in the flow stream, and with time, hydrates can block the flowline. Hydrate operational problems are most severe in high pressure flowlines in cold environments, such as in deep waters around the world where the seawater tem- perature is typically between 34° and 40°F. Hydrates are members of a chemical class of compounds Hydrocarbon water systems. Hydrates are solids composed of water and a gas (methane, CO,, etc.). The water forms a crystal lattice of cavities with pentagonal and hexagonal surfaces. Each cavity, or cage, may enclose a single mkthane (or other foreign) molecule.In some ways. hydrates are similar to ice. Hydrates have a density close to that of ice, and have an appearance like frost or ice. However, in contrast to ice, the decomposition temperature of hydrates increases with increasing pressure at pressures below 15,000 psi. A hydrate thermodynamic equilibriumcurve, or decomposition curve, (bold line) for a hypothetical oil/water/gas production system is shown in Fig. 1. The decomposition curve starts at around 100 psi and 34°F and rises to 3,000 psi at around 70°F. Hydrates may form at temperatures below and pressures above the hydrate decomposition curve. Also shown in Fig. 1 is a pressure-temperature profile curve (thin line with arrows) of produced fluids in a flowline from deepwater wells to a shallow water platform 40 to 60 miles away.



 Phase equilibrium of gas hydrates is altered in porous media as compared to bulk systems. Inside porous media, the thermodynamic potential of chemical components changes due to molecular interactions with pore walls and due to the energy required to maintain capillary equilibrium. A pore-freezing model was developed that can be used to predict gas hydrate equilibrium for pure CH4, CO2 and mixed CH4-CO2 systems in saline pore waters for any given pore size distribution. The important feature of this model is that it takes into consideration salting out phenomena, i.e. increase in salt concentration due to gas hydrate and ice formation. It also gives the gas hydrate saturation in porous medium. A new EOS developed for prediction of bulk gas hydrate equilibrium conditions, based on van der Waals - Platteeuw model, is used in the pore freezing model and can also be used to calculate heats of formation of these hydrates for a given pore size and pressure. The results obtained from the model are compared with experimental results. Introduction Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds that occur under appropriate pressure-temperature conditions when water forms a cage-like structure around a smaller guest molecule. The guest molecule can be methane, ethane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, etc. Gas hydrates are found in natural environments such as sea bottoms, under permafrost areas, and arctic locations such as West Siberian Basin in Russia, North Slope of Alaska, offshore locations such as Gulf of Mexico, Black Sea and Caspian Sea. Theoretical world-wide accumulations of natural gas hydrates exceed known hydrocarbon reserves on a per carbon basis even in modest estimates (Sloan, 1998).[1] Because of the acknowledged magnitude of the resource, there is rapidly growing world-wide interest in exploiting gas hydrate deposits for natural gas production. Depressurization, thermal stimulation, inhibitor injection, or combinations of these methods have been considered as possible means of methane recovery from gas hydrates. New advanced production concepts are also being proposed, such as the injection of a CO2-water microemulsion into the hydrate bearing porous media [McGrail et al. (2004){2}]. However, before large scale commercial recovery of natural gas from gas hydrates can be attempted, important issues regarding reservoir stimulation techniques, safety, and cost must be addressed through reservoir modeling. Fundamental to any reservoir simulation is the ability to accurately calculate the phase equilibrium behavior of the solids and liquids in the system. A large body of thermodynamic data exists for various clathrate hydrates in pure water, sea water, and other aqueous systems (Sloan 1998).[1] However, the effects of geologic media on gas hydrate stability have received comparitavely little attention. The fundamental physics and chemistry associated with gas hydrate formation and dissociation in porous media, and the physicochemical properties of the gas hydrates in sediments remain relatively poorly understood. The purpose of this work is to extend the well-developed thermodynamic theory of bulk gas hydrate equilibrium behavior to non-idealized porous media. The model described here predicts the hydrate equilibrium conditions for hydrate formation/dissociation conditions in a porous medium. The model is also capable of predicting hydrate saturations for any given pore size distribution. Theoretical background: Inside a porous medium, the thermodynamic potential of chemical components is changed with respect to bulk conditions as a consequence of molecular interactions at the pore walls, energy required to maintain capillary equilibrium and increase in ionic strength of residual pore water upon partial freezing due to salt exclusion from gas hydrate or ice formation. All these mechanisms decrease the activity of water in a pore and lead to hydrate formation at lower temperatures at given pressure and at higher pressures for given temperature. Therefore, the hydrate saturation also changes due to change in equilibrium conditions.



:Experiments are performed in order to study the effect of hydrate formation on heat transfer in pipes. The hydrate formation in the horizontal flow of the gaseous refrigerant R134a and water is examined in a transparent test section at low pressure. The experiments conducted have shown that the formation of hydrates starts on the pipe wall. For certain flow condition~ the whole perimeter of the pipe wall is covered by hydrates and a solid hydrate layer is achieved. The thickness of the hydrate layer can be related to the measured pressure losses. The thickness of . the hydrate layer can be calculated, if a first order logarithmic function of the radial coordinate is assumed for the temperature field within the hydrate layer. Due to the decreasing flow cross section the heat transfer coefficient at the solid"liquid phase line increases for constant volumetric flow rates of water and gas. If the heat transfer rate to the hydrate layer matches the heat transfer rate transferred to the cooling agent, the hydrate layer will not grow up anymore. A stable hydrate layer is achieved. Criteria for achieving stable hydrate layers are presented. 1 INTRODUCTIONUp to now, crude oil and natural gas from subsea reservoirs are exploited by conveying the mixture of oil, gas, aqueous brine and entrained solids from the well along risers to the processing platforms, where the different phases of the well stream mixture are separated. Oil and gas as unprocessed materials are conveyed to the shore by pipeline or by tankers. The investment and operating costs of this kind of exploitation are high. The exploi~ tation of marginal gas fields is not economical yet. Developing these fields from. already existing platforms offers a possibility for reducing costs ..



Deepwater natural gas hydrate resources potentially exceed all other conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbon resources on a world-wide basis. However, before these offshore gas hydrate resources can be classified as reserves, it must be demonstrated that gas hydrates can be produced under conditions that make economic sense. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the technical issues that will challenge the development of deepwater natural gas hydrates.



 This paper presents a practical approach to commercial production of gas hydrates. The background and current status of hydrates is reviewed. Concepts for exploration and production of methane resources are presented. Conceptual and procedural techniques are included.Introduction Attention is focused on gas hydrates as petroleum reserves dwindle and the price of fuel rises rapidly. Figure 1, the cover of National Geographic, June 2004, states bluntly "The End of Cheap Oil". Oil is a mainstay of society and general well being in the modern world. Reshuffling of the world's economy at this very moment is rapidly changing political, social, and military relationships creating grave doubt for the future. National Geographic, hardly an alarmist publication, is best known for its clear insight and candor.In keeping with naming periods of history The Stone Age, The Iron Age, etc., the present is The Oil Age and we are living in the latter day. The question is what will replace petroleum? Coal, water, atomic energy, though important--none can substitute for oil. When questioned by an American Oil & Gas reporter, October 2004, President Bush answered, "Devising methods to tap the massive energy potential of methane hydrates". The author accepts the President's challenge and this paper offers concepts to commercially produce methane.Major Considerations Hydrates, abundant in many coastal and polar regions, are a ready source of methane. The West can ill afford to continue as we are now, even if the world was at peace. We fueled WWI, WWII, and ensuing conflicts but fueling another major war is out of the question. As conflicts continue the US will simply go bankrupt. Much of the world will cheer. Modification of the old adage-"Land of the free and the home of the hated", is indeed true. Life as we know it will change inexorably if we fail to develop gas hydrates. The balance of political, economic, military, and social power will no longer be Western-dominated. There is no time to dally, time is of essence, the hour is late, and the West must hasten if global chaos and disaster are to be averted. To succeed we must organize a cooperative structure of governments, industries, and academia to commercially produce hydrates. However, currently cooperation is moving at an intolerably slow pace. The goal is singular--develop gas hydrates IMMEDIATELY!Nature has provided gas hydrates in abundance beneath the sea and on shore in polar regions. Occurrences are documented in offshore Florida, Georgia, and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as coastal areas around the globe. Figure 2 is a view of known hydrate occurrences. Figure 3 locates the Northern and Southern Hydrate Ridges off the coast of Oregon. In general hydrates occur along the base of the continental slope.NASA SeaSat program assessed marine resources. Differential scanning radiometers were developed that could detect sea surface evidence of hydrates below. Note Figure 4 indicates the presence of hydrates. This picture is not of hydrates but it is indicative of the type of readout that could indicate such deposits.



Research efforts undertaken by the Morgantown Energy Technology Center, Department of Energy, have focused on the geologic assessment of gas hydrate deposits existing in two different settings (onshore and offshore). Preliminary assessments have been completed for the North slope of Alaska and the offshore east coast of the United States. Specific sites studied in the onshore setting were the Point Barrow, Kuparuk River, Prudhoe Bay, Cape Simpson, Cape Thompson, and Umiat areas of Alaska. The specific site for the offshore setting was the Blake-Bahama Outer Ridge area of the western Atlantic. This study demonstrates the use of geophysical, geological, and geochemical techniques and data to locate and evaluate the potential gas hydrate resource of these two settings.IntroductionThis study was initiated to evaluate the geologic factors that control the formation and detection of gas-hydrates within onshore and offshore environments. This study focused on two areas where gas hydrates are known to occur: the Alaskan North Slope (onshore) and the U.S. east coast continental margins (offshore).It is known that gas hydrates are a type of inclusion compound, or clathrate, formed as a solid, ice-like mixture of gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules (see Figure 1). Water and natural gas, under certain conditions of temperature and pressure, can form naturally occurring gas hydrates in sediments underlying ocean basins and within or adjacent to permafrost regions.Because gas hydrates form under conditions of relatively low temperatures and high pressures, two opposing factors control the formation and distribution of gas hydrates in the Earth, given sufficient quantities of gas and water. The first is the geothermal gradient, or temperature increase associated with increasing crustal depth. Average continental gradients are generally 2 to 3Â°C/100 m, while offshore geothermal gradients average 3.6Â°C/100 m in the western Atlantic. Because hydrates are generally stable under conditions of relatively low temperatures, the geothermal gradient limits hydrate formation and existence to relatively shallow, cooler regions of the Earth's crust.The second factor that controls the distribution of hydrate regimes is the pressure gradient, or pressure increase associated with increasing water and/or crustal depth. Average pressure gradients are generally 10.1 kPa/m. Because hydrates are generally stable under conditions of relatively high pressures, the pressure gradient limits hydrate formation and existence to depths below 300 m in continental areas and 500 m (minimum water depth) in offshore areas. Therefore, because of the opposing factors of pressure and temperature, there is a defined region where hydrates are stable called the hydrate stability zone (HSZ) (see Figure 2).The source of methane for gas-hydrate formation may be either biogenic or thermogenic. Biogenic methane results from the microbial breakdown of organic matter in shallow sediment; thermogenic methane comes from the thermal alteration of organic matter in sediment at depth. Because gas hydrates occur in shallow sediment, biogenic sources are often indicated, especially for gas hydrates of outer continental margins (Kvenvolden and Barnard, 1983). Where gas migration pathways are available from deep within the sedimentary section, thermogenic gas may also form hydrates.



As operators move into more remote regions, deeper offshore depths, and into regions that yield more challenging reservoir fluids, they face difficulty in keeping the produced fluids and gas flowing through the lines. The field of flow assurance, the coupling of multiphase flow and production chemistry, was born out of necessity as it has grown in concern to all operators.



Unsolicited. This document was submitted to SPE (or its predecessor organization) for consideration for publication in one of its technical journals. While not published, this paper has been included in the eLibrary with the permission of and transfer of copyright from the author.  New data on the initial hydrate formation conditions have been obtained for pure isobutane along the hydrate-water liquid-isobutane liquid locus and for ten mixtures of methane and isobutane covering a concentration range from 0.23 to 63.6 mol percent isobutane along the hydrate-water liquid-vapor locus. In addition the four phase hydrate-water liquid -isobutane liquid - vapor quadruple locus has been determined from pure isobutane liquid and vapor phases. This occurred for a mixture pure isobutane liquid and vapor phases. This occurred for a mixture containing 19.8 percent isobutane at a temperature of 77.8 deg. F and a pressure of 1678 psia. The phase behavior of systems of this type is pressure of 1678 psia. The phase behavior of systems of this type is described in some detail. Introduction Many studies have been made of the hydrate forming conditions for materials commonly found in natural gases or in other industrially important systems. The experimental work of Hammerschmidt, Deaton and Frost, and Katz and his coworkers, provided a foundation on which much of the more recent theoretical work has relied. The pioneering contributions of von Stackelberg and Muller, Claussen, Van der Waals and Platteeu and more recently Parrish and Prausnitz have greatly increased our Platteeu and more recently Parrish and Prausnitz have greatly increased our understanding of the nature of hydrates and have improved our ability to predict the conditions under which they may form. predict the conditions under which they may form. A renewed interest in the phase behavior of hydrate forming systems has developed because of the possibility of hydrate formation in liquified petroleum product pipelines, because of the potential discoveries of frozen gas fields in the Arctic regions, and because of the denuding effect of hydrates on crude oils in permafrost regions. Present address: Celanese Canada Ltd., Edmonton, Alberta. Present address: Celanese Canada Ltd., Edmonton, Alberta.



 A major challenge in offshore development is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons. Managing solids such as hydrates is the key to the viability of developing a deepwater prospect. Common methods to prevent and reduce hydrate risks are generally based on injection of thermodynamic inhibitors to prevent hydrate formation, or use of kinetic hydrate inhibitors to sufficiently delay hydrate nucleation/growth. Currently, the amount of inhibitor required is either calculated and/or determined based on lab experiments. The amount of inhibitor depends on various parameters, including, water cut, inhibitor loss to hydrocarbon phases, aqueous and non-aqueous fluid compositions, operating conditions. Generally, a safety factor is considered and the resulting inhibitor is injected upstream without much downstream measurements. Despite the usual safety margins, gas hydrates are formed, which could result in serious operational and safety concerns. This is mainly caused by changes in the system conditions (e.g., rates and water cut) and/or malfunction of the equipment. In most cases, the amount of inhibitor is more than necessary and is not adjusted with seasonal changes, affecting CAPEX/OPEX. As a result of a joint industry project, several novel techniques, based on downstream and online measurements, have been developed. These techniques could be divided into the following categories: Monitoring hydrate safety margin to optimize inhibitor injection rates. The system determines the amount of inhibitor in the aqueous phase and the degree of inhibition they can offer. Detecting initial hydrate formation, as an early warning system against hydrate blockage. The system detects the changes in the system caused by hydrate formation with the aim of giving the operator enough time to prevent a blockage. The main advantages of these techniques include minimizing the amount of inhibitor required and preventing pipeline blockages caused by hydrates, hence the cost of inhibitor; impact on the environment; cost of remedial actions; and deferred production. A number of techniques have been investigated during this project, with some techniques selected for prototype development. The developed prototypes have been tested in the project sponsors' laboratories and some in commercial production. In this paper, an update on the latest results of this new approach in flow assurance control is presented.



The presence of c1athrates (gas hydrates) is well established observationally in the offshore region of the South Caspian Basin. This paper examines the potential hazards that can occur from hydrates for exploration rigs, production platforms and pipelines. Problems examined include hydrate formation zones, and explosive dissociation as a result of mud flows and/or uplift and rotation of submarine mud volcanoes. In addition, flame initiation by dissociation is also examined as a potential hazard, as are hazards due to drill penetration, warm circulation mud, and drill-bit heating of hydrates. Chemical composition of hydrates is shown to play a critical role in hazard evaluation, and seismic identification procedures for hydrate detection as bottom simulating reflectors (BSRs) are encouraged. Seismically-identified hydrates can be used to estimate thermal gradients in sediments without invasive procedures being required, and so to provide limits on the maximum thickness of hydrates in sediments. In addition, seismic procedures also provide a way of estimating hydrate composition. These non-invasive methods allow identification of worst-case hazard possibilities from hydrates.IntroductionThe offshore region of the South Caspian Basin is noted for a variety of hazards associated with gas-charged mud volcanoes. These hazards include: (i) breccia ejecta; (ii) gas eruptions; (111) mud flows; (iv) flame ignition; (v) earthquakes associated with eruptions; (vi) kilometer-long fissure production to widths of a few meters and escarpments to a few meters or tens of meters; (vii) slumping, pull-away and rotation of volcanic crests; (viii) gas-charging of overlying waters; (IX) gas-charging of highly unconsolidated surficial sedimentary layers, to the point that the seismic impedance of the sediments is occasionally lower than that of overlying waters; (x) clathrate production and dissociation; (xi) vertical and lateral motion of mud diapir crests; (xii) current washing away of surficial and near-surficial diapirs, volcanoes, and mud islands; (xiii) massive overpressure caused by gas and fluid in the mud material. Under particular conditions anyone or all of these hazard factors may be in effect at given times and for given locations. Based on Azeri historical data from mud volcanoes onshore, statistical probabilities were evaluated for breccia, gas eruptions, flaming, mud flows, earthquakes, and fissure production (Lerche et al., 1996), and were also used to provide preliminary assessments for hazards to exploration rigs, production platforms and pipelines in the offshore region of the South Caspian Basin. The remaining hazard factors in the above list do not have good statistical data bases of historical events from which to assess hazard probabilities in the offshore region, although isolated events are recorded. For instance, Dadashev et al. (1995) have compiled a temporal record of the appearances and disappearances of the offshore Chigil-Deniz Bank over the last 130 years, and of the numerous flame eruptions of Bakhar Bank and Zenbil Island. But, by-and-large, data are extremely sparse on mud diapirs and volcanoes in greater than 100 m of water. It then becomes difficult to provide hazard probabilities for the majority of the remaining hazards in the above list. An exception occurs for hydrates, because of direct gravity-core sampling of hydrates at or near the crests of the Buzdag, Elm and Abikh mud volcanoes (Ginsburg et al, 1992; Dadashev et al., 1995) in water depths of 480 m, 660 m and 600 m, respectively.



A concept, CONWHYP (CONversion of Water to HYdrate Particles), has been developed in which a recirculation stream containing hydrate particles seeds hydrate growth in a cooled water-containing well stream. The hydrate particles then grow quickly and in a controlled manner. The hydrate particles are dry, non-depositing and non-agglomerating, and will eliminate free water from the rest of the transport system. The concept has been tested and verified in a prototype laboratory setup. The results include general observations of dry hydrate behavior, experiments on water content, hydrate particle morphology, and salt and "black oil" effects. Some possible designs for industrial application of the concept as a subsea-processing unit for multiphase flow solutions in harsh environments are outlined. IntroductionThe trend of oil and gas industry moving into deeper and colder water, together with the minimization of on-site platforms and processing capabilities, means that hydrate problems will be a major factor in many new development projects. Traditionally, hydrate issues have been avoided through the use of chemical inhibitors, leading to a host of associated problems such as demanding lots of extra equipment and space due to huge volumes, logistical challenges, negative environmental impacts, high costs, and sometimes lower product quality. When hydrate problems do occur, they are solved by introducing some of the same chemicals, or by reducing the pressure. Longer and deeper pipelines will make both of these methods more difficult to apply, as chemicals will be harder to get to remote parts, and the hydrostatic pressure alone will keep lower parts of a pipeline inside the hydrate region.The CONWYP project has therefore aimed at developing a technology through which the industry can live with hydrates by controlling their appearance to avoid problems (deposition and plugging), and using the hydrates to minimize other problems, through making water unavailable for e.g. corrosion.The CONWHYP conceptIf hydrates are produced in a controlled manner, dry and "inert" hydrate particles will result. It is in the formation stages, where free, unconverted water still is present, that hydrates have the well-known appearance and properties that may lead to pipeline deposition and plugging (Ref. 1). CONWHYP (CONversion of Water to HYdrate Particles) is a concept developed by SINTEF for conversion of free water to flowable "inert" hydrate particles in a fluid flow. If water is to be transported as a hydrate slurry in a cold pipeline from a subsea field, the water to hydrate reaction has to be driven to total completion such that no more solids will be able to deposit out. i.e. no water is available for further hydrate formation. In order to achieve this, water from a subsea well will have to be converted to hydrates near the well in a fast and controlled manner without any deposition-prone intermediate stages. In the CONWHYP concept this is done without chemical additives by using the fact that hydrate surfaces exhibit a high degree of hydrophilic behaviour (Refs. 2 and 3).



The conditions at which methane and water form solid hydrates have beenextended from 4,000 to 11,200 pounds per sq. in. The curve at high pressure hadbeen in doubt because of Villard's report of a critical decompositiontemperature. The paper explains the nature of the hydrate curve at highpressure and its dependence on fluid phase behavior. Extropolation of themethane hydrate curve indicates a pressure of 40,000 pounds per sq. in. willcause hydrates to form at a temperature of 100? F.IntroductionThe conditions under which natural gases form hydrates when liquid water ispresent have been studied by several investigators up to pressures of about4,000 pounds per sq. in. The early work by Villard on hydrates of methane andethylene, ethane, and propane included references to critical decompositiontemperatures of the hydrates. Villard's work raised the question as to whetherthe pressure-temperature curve for methane-water hydrate continued above atemperature of 70.7?F. or whether this was the maximum temperature at whichhydrates would form.This paper extends the experimental data on methane hydrate to 11,200 poundsper sq. in. A discussion of phase relations in the hydrate region for thehydrocarbons and of the methane-water system at high pressures isincluded.Previous WorkVillard suspected that methane hydrates could not be formed at temperaturesabove 21.5?C. (70.7?F.) irrespective of the pressure of the liquid-vaporsystem. However, he was limited in his studies by his apparatus in 1888 topressures not greater than 300 atmospheres (4,410 pounds per sq. in.) so thatthere has remained some doubt as to the existence of such a maximum temperaturein this region.For the case of ethylene hydrates, however, Villard does specifically state theoccurrence of what he terms a "critical temperature for the decompositionof the hydrates."T.P. 2579



 Gas hydrates in reservoirs are generally not in thermodynamic equilibrium and there may be several competing phase transitions involving hydrate. Formation of carbon dioxide hydrates during aquifer storage of carbon dioxide involves roughly 10% volume increase compared to groundwater. Dissociation of hydrate towards under saturated fluid phases involves the same level of contraction. Hydrate phase transitions are generally fast (scales of seconds) compared to mineral dissolution and precipitation and it is unlikely that a time shifted explicit coupling to geo mechanical analysis will be able to capture the appropriate dynamic couplings between flow and changes in stress. The need for geo mechanical integrity of the storage site therefore requires a reservoir simulator with an implicit solution of mass flow, heat flow and geo mechanics. And since carbon dioxide involved in hydrate is also involved in different geochemical reactions we propose a scheme where all possible hydrate formation (on water/carbon dioxide interface, from water solution and from carbon dioxide adsorbed on mineral surfaces) as well as all different possible dissociations are treated as pseudo reactions but with kinetics derived from advanced theoretical modeling. The main tools for generating these models have been phase field theory simulations, with thermodynamic properties derived from molecular modeling. The detailed results from these types of simulations provides information on the relative impact of mass transport, heat transport and thermodynamics of the phase transition which enable qualified simplifications for implementation into RCB. The primary step was to study the effect of hydrate growth or dissociation with a certain kinetic rate on the mechanical properties of the reservoir. Details of the simulator, and numerical algorithms, are discussed and relevant examples are shown. Introduction Natural gas hydrate in the reservoir is continuously attracting the attention of more researchers around the world and the reason is its importance from different aspects ranging from a potential energy resource to environmental threat. Hydrate can occur in sediments below the oceanic floor or in the permafrost wherever the thermodynamic conditions are suitable and water and guest molecules are available. Investigations show that there are huge resources of natural gas hydrate in the earth which due to the high volumetric concentration of methane gas per hydrate volume is considered as a substantial energy resource. Besides, methane combustion releases less CO2 per unit energy release compared to both coal and oil which means a cleaner fuel from environmental point of view. On the other hand methane can be over twenty times more aggressive than CO2 in trapping the heat in the atmosphere and in case of leakage from sediments it can affect the marine life and the climate substantially. There are several scenarios for methane production from natural gas hydrate reservoirs. Depressurization method in which hydrate stability condition is disturbed by pressure reduction according to the water-gas-hydrate equilibrium curve of figure 1 resulting in hydrate dissociation and release of methane. It is currently considered as the most feasible process considering expenses and production rate and has been investigated by many research groups through simulation studies. Thermal stimulation is another method which is based on moving out from stability region by temperature increase. It is considered to be costly due to huge amount of energy waste to the surroundings. The third method is to use inhibitors such as methanol or brine to shift the equilibrium curve and dissociate hydrate according to figure 2 which is also costly. The final method is injection of CO2 into the methane hydrate reservoirs. CO2-hydrate is more stable than Ch4-hydrate. Therefore CO2-hydrate formation will provide the necessary heat to dissociate methane hydrate and it can be considered both as a natural gas production method and a CO2 sequestration process (Graue et al., 2008).



While it is important to approach each system individually when dealing with new types of performance chemicals, the anti-agglomerants have been found to be suitable for hydrate control in most of the situations encountered in offshore oil production. Anti-agglomerants have now been used in several field applications in deepwater systems - both in subsea wells and dry tree wells - under both flowing and shut-in conditions. During these applications, no hydrate problems were observed. The anti-agglomerants caused no upsets in the topsides operations; there were no emulsion problems, no foaming problems, and no water quality problems. The products were deployed through the existing methanol injection systems without incident. Application rates were significantly lower than if methanol were used. Potential advantages of the anti-agglomerants over methanol include smaller umbilicals, smaller pumps, smaller storage facilities, and less frequent supply trips.IntroductionThe formation of natural gas hydrates is the most universal of the many flow assurance challenges faced during production of oil and gas from deepwater reservoirs. As noted by Mehta, et. al.,1 deepwater production conditions are ideal for the formation of hydrates. Thus there is a need to improve both the system design and operating procedures.Although the existence of gas hydrates was recognized by Davy2 nearly two hundred years ago, it took over a hundred years before their formation was recognized as a problem in gas transmission lines.3 Gas hydrates are essentially compounds of water in which the gas molecules play, both figuratively and literally, only a supporting role. Without this support, however, the whole structure collapses. To understand gas hydrates, water must be understood first. The physical properties of water are dominated by the formation of hydrogen bonds between water molecules. Hydrogen bonds are much weaker than chemical bonds, yet much stronger than the dipole-dipole interactions (van der Waals forces) that allow most materials to form condensed phases. Without the existence of hydrogen bonds, water would be a gas that would be more difficult to liquefy than carbon dioxide, oxygen or nitrogen. One of the most recognized peculiarities of water is the fact that it expand on freezing. This clearly shows that solid water has a more "open" structure than liquid water. While rare, this phenomenon is not nearly as unusual as the fact that the density of water increases as it is heated from 0°C to 4°C. This behavior shows that this open structure, which is the result of hydrogen bonding, persists in liquid water.4When water freezes it releases an extraordinary amount of heat as additional hydrogen bonds are formed. Clearly the formation of solid water is energetically favored, but it is opposed by the strict order (entropy) that is created by its formation. Gas hydrates form because the gas molecules dissolved in the water help support an open, ordered system thereby allowing a solid water phase to form at a higher temperature. The action of the gas is primarily related to its space filling geometry. Molecules of similar size contribute similarly to the stability of the gas hydrate. This model is supported by the fact that the standard entropy of solution for the series of hydrocarbons from methane to butane increases in absolute magnitude as the size of the molecule increases.5 This implies that larger molecules create more order.



The paper briefly presents some important aspects related to natural gashydrates. Some theoretical aspects in connection with the thermodynamic andkinetic mechanisms of hydrates formation are reviewed, following which themethods for controlling their generation during drilling, gas production,transportation and processing are mentioned. At the end of the paper thepossibilities for hydrate utilization in connection with natural gas storageare being considered.IntroductionIn the oil production industry gaseous hydrocarbon hydrates represent aspecial problem leading to production losses and implying high costs forcontrolling their formation or for their removal.Lately, a major concern of the research activity in the oil field has beenthe finding of some efficient methods for reducing the risks induced byhydrates. In addition to this some solutions are also sought for hydrateutilization taking into account the high potential of gaseous hydrocarbonstorage.Efficient possibilities for gas drying, thermodynamic inhibition and morerecently for the kinetic inhibition of the hydrate formation are presented. Thepossibility of achieving a technological process for producing cryohydrateswith the view to use them as a substitute of liquefied petroleum gas is alsopresented.Hydrate formation theoryNatural gas hydrates are solid, white, crystalline substances, with cellularstructure (of clathrate type) which are formed as a result of water vapours andgaseous hydrocarbons (or other gases) interaction in the presence of free waterand under conditions of high pressure and low temperature (over 0°Chowever).



In this paper we investigate experimentally the effect of surfactants on the formation kinetics of methane hydrate. The compounds tested include: anionic, cationic and nonionic surfactants. Experimental results indicate that surfactants (at concentrations levels near their CMC) do not influence the thermodynamics, however, they have a strong influence on the kinetics of gas dissolution in the water phase as well as on the overall rate of hydrate formation. In addition, the formed hydrate particles in the presence of the various surfactants exhibit diverse agglomeration characteristics. This work is part of an overall effort to develop the technology required for the safe operation of offshore oil and gas transportation pipelines without inhibitors. IntroductionUndersea oil and gas transportation pipelines in cold waters are often under thermodynamically suitable conditions for the formation of gas hydrates. Traditionally, the industry has designed pipelines and processing facilities to operate outside the hydrate formation pressure-temperature region. This is accomplished by the addition of inhibitors or by the dehydration of the gas/condensate fluids. However, this approach may be prohibitively expensive for offshore pipelines. We believe that a more economical approach is to allow the hydrates to form, and consider their transportation in the form of a slurry, where the formed particles neither deposit nor agglomerate. This paper addresses this problem by investigating experimentally the effect of surfactants on the formation kinetics as well as the physical characteristics of methane hydrate particles formed in the presence of surface active compounds. Surfactants are substances that when they present even at very concentrations, have the ability to significantly alter the surface or interfacial free energies. Therefore, surfactants should have a direct effect on the hydrate formation process. The formed nuclei in the presence of surfactants should have a different critical radius and hence, a higher surface area per unit volume of the system. The later may have a significant effect on the global formation rate under certain regimes of operation. Surfactants form colloidal-size clusters in solutions called micelles. The critical micelle concentration (CMC) is the minimum concentration of the dissolved surfactant above which the clusters (micelles) begin to appear in the solution. At CMC an abrupt change occurs in almost every physical property that depends on the size or number of particles in solution. This behavior is true for all types of surfactants - nonionic, anionic, cationic and zwitterionic - in aqueous solutions. The maximum reduction in surface tension occurs at CMC. As a result we decided to examine the effect of surfactants on hydrate formation kinetics when they are present near their CMC levels. The compounds tested include: anionic and nonionic surfactants. Freezing point depression experiments with thirteen surfactants showed that they do not have any measurable influence at concentrations near their CMC. P. 375^



Natural gas hydrate is found worldwide in sediments of outer continental margins of all oceans and in polar areas with continuous permafrost. There are currently 77 localities identified globally where geophysical, geochemical and/or geological evidence indicates the presence of gas hydrate. Details concerning individual gas-hydrate occurrences are compiled at a new world-wide-web (www) site (http://walrus.wr.usgs.gov/globalhydrate). This site has been created to facilitate global gas-hydrate research by providing information on each of the localities where there is evidence for gas hydrate. Also considered are the implications of gas hydrate as a potential (1) energy resource, (2) factor in global climate change, and (3) geohazard.INTRODUCTIONInterest in naturally occurring gas hydrate has increased steadily since about 1969 when Vasil''ev et al. (1970) recognized that natural gas could form gas-hydrate deposits that should occur globally wherever the pressure and temperature conditions are favorable. Recognition of the potential for natural gas-hydrate occurrence was followed by its discovery, first in permafrost regions of northern Russia (Makogon et al., 1971, 1972). It was then observed in sediment of the Black Sea (Yefremova and Zhizhchenko, 1974) and inferred by seismic surveys to be present in sediment of the Blake Ridge, in the western Atlantic Ocean (Stoll et al., 1971; Ewing and Hollister, 1972). By the early 1980s, gas hydrate had been found in outer continental margin sediment of the Middle America Trench offshore from Mexico (Shipley and Didyk, 1982) and Guatemala (Harrison and Curiale, 1982). Since then, the rate of discovery of evidence for gas hydrate has accelerated. The early history of discovery of gas hydrate has been summarized by Kvenvolden (2000). EVIDENCE FOR GAS HYDRATE Three kinds of evidence have been used to identify the presence of natural gas hydrate--geological, geochemical, and geophysical.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Antiagglomerant Hydrate Inhibitors for Prevention of Hydrate Plugs in Deepwater Systems," by L.M. Frostman, SPE, Baker Petrolite, prepared for presentation at the 2000 SPE Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition, Dallas, 1-4 October.



 The traditional method of managing hydrates in production systems has been complete avoidance. This methodology comes at a high cost of insulation to maintain fluid temperature beyond the hydrate formation temperature and/or chemicals to prevent hydrates from forming. This paper will present methods to assess hydrate formation/plugging tendencies and manage the system in a manner that allows for reduction in insulation requirements and/or chemical usage. ExxonMobil's Upstream Research Company (EMURC) has developed a unique hydrate slurry model based on experience gained in the laboratory and field applications. Cold restarts are different than allowing fluids to remain cold indefinitely (i.e. cold flow) in that the hydrates form for a period of time before the system eventually comes out of the hydrate formation region in "steady-state/normal" production. This presentation will show how the model is used to assess hydrate blockage potentials by integration with a transient multiphase flow simulator. This enables the model to predict amounts of hydrates that form and couple the formation with flow dynamics such as shear conditions, phase fractions, and dispersion characteristics which influence the probability of a hydrate blockage forming. The model has been applied successfully to several applications by assessing various cold restart strategies in which significant cost savings have been realized through the reduction of insulation requirement and/or chemical usage – in some instances it has allowed for the extension of field life.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium among pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respect to methane concentration in the seawater in contact with the hydrate. Since the average methane concentration in the oceans is very close to zero, the hydrate will not be thermodynamically stable when exposed to this seawater. The estimated driving forces for dissociation are limited, and the dissociation rate is expected to be correspondingly small. Accurate estimates for the dissociation kinetics in a system with these small driving forces require accurate values for the interfacial tensions as well as other rheological properties involved in the kinetics of dissociation, and the transport of heat and melted molecules away from the hydrate/seawater interface. Work is in progress on the estimation of these properties using molecular simulations. I have also presented a nucleation theory for the kinetics of hydrate formation and growth based on multi-component diffusive interface theory. Theoretical estimates indicate that methane hydrate initiation from the gas side of the gas/water interface may dominate when compared to initiation and growth from the liquid side of the interface. INTRODUCTION One of the problems involved in the modelling of the kinetics of hydrate formation is that many pieces of the mechanisms involved in the total formation process for water and hydrate former to hydrate are still unknown. Basically we might say that the kinetic problem can be divided into 2 main stages, initial nucleation and stable growth. The nucleation stage is related to that of forming hydrate cores that are thermodynamically stable and as such will grow steadily. The actual content of these 2 stages, and in particular the nucleation stage, of the formation process in terms of mechanisms and corresponding detailed kinetic contributions remains experimentally unverified today.



This presentation was an SPE Distinguished Lecture during 2004-2005.Gas hydrates, or clathrate hydrates, are ice-like crystallinecompounds, which form through a combination of water and suitably sized ‘guest'molecules under suitable temperature and pressure conditions. They looklike ice, but unlike ice they can form at temperatures well above icepoint.In petroleum exploration and production operations, gas hydrates are aserious economic and safety concern. They can cause partial or totalblockages in pipelines and processing facilities. They are a serioushazard in deepwater drilling, which can potentially block the BOP stack, killlines and chokes, obstruct the movement of the drill string, and cause seriousoperational and safety concerns.In the 1960's it was recognized that considerable quantities of gas hydrate,mainly methane hydrate, occur naturally in the sediments of subsea continentalslopes, and in the subsurface of Arctic permafrost regions. Since thisdiscovery, there has been an increased global interest in natural gas hydrates,with research being driven by a number of factors. These include thepotential for methane hydrates as strategic energy reserve (currently estimatedat twice that of total fossil fuels), the possibilities for CO2sequestration, subsea landslide and tsunamis, the potential dangers posed todeepwater drilling and installations, pipelines and subsea cables, hydratestability and methane (a potent greenhouse gas) release and its effect onglobal climate changes. However, gas hydrates are not all bad news, asthey can have many positive applications, due to their very interestingproperties. They can be used for separation, storage and transportationof oil and gas, CO2 separation and sequestration, watertreatment. They could also have many applications in agriculture, food,pharmaceutical, and medical industries.In this presentation, the various positive and negative aspects of gashydrates are discussed. The presentation will cover the necessaryconditions for gas hydrate formation, their interesting properties, theirformation in sediments, their potential as a source of low carbon fuel, theireffect on global climate changes and glacial periods, subsea landslide andmethane release, as well as some of their positive applications. However,the lecture will focus on flow assurance aspects of gas hydrates, discussingapplied methods for predicting their formation conditions, and techniques usedfor detecting and dissociating hydrate plugs. The lecture will concludewith some case studies.



The kinetic and thermodynamic inhibition of gas hydrates occurs by disruption of the hydrogen bonding process that otherwise leads to clustering of water molecules as a solid lattice. Consequently, and in order to design better inhibitors for gas hydrates, it is of utmost importance to understand the mechanisms that lead to the formation of gas hydrates.The interaction of the hydrate forming molecules with the water molecules at the onset of hydrate formation is re-examined in light of the results of NMR and X-ray diffraction data, and the statistical mechanics models. This re-examination shows that the large cages of structures I and II hydrates are almost always preferentially occupied regardless of the molecular size of the hydrate former. In other words, the large cages 512 62 and 512 64 of the hydrate structures, I and II, dominate the hydrate nucleation process.IntroductionGas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance but differing in crystal structure. However, their structure is still considered as a derivative of the ice structure. Under favorable conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of a hydrate former inside a hydrogen-bonded solid lattice. The hydrate former could be in a vapor or a liquid state, miscible or immiscible with the water. Over 100 molecules have been identified as clathrate hydrate formers with water. Among those are the natural gas components N2, H2S, CO2, C1, C2, C3, and iC4. Larger molecules like nC4 require a helper gas to form hydrates. The weak van der Waals type interaction of the entrapped molecules with the water molecules gives the structure its thermodynamic stability. Three crystal structures have been identified for hydrates. These are structure I, structure II, and the more recently identified structure H. A wealth of hydrate phase equilibrium and growth kinetics data has also been accumulated. This was accompanied by the development of the statistical mechanics model of van der Waals and Platteeuw which introduced the first quantitative method to predict the equilibrium conditions of gas hydrates based on their crystal configuration. Despite these important milestones, much is yet to be learned about the molecular mechanisms with which hydrates form. On the other hand, molecular simulation provided important insight about the water-water and guest-water interactions within the hydrate structure. It was also used to determine the interactions of an apolar molecule with its hydration shell in dilute aqueous solutions of the former. Nevertheless, molecular level understanding for the phase transition process of clathrate hydrates is still in preliminary stages.P. 169^



This article, written by Assistant Technology Editor Karen Bybee, contains highlights of paper SPE 75668, "Hydrate Inhibition in Gas Wells Treated With Two Low-Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors," by Dean Lovell, ConocoPhillips Canada and Marek Pakulski, SPE, BJ Unichem Chemical Services, originally presented at the 2002 SPE Gas Technology Symposium, Calgary, 30 April- 2 May.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. Hydrates are inclusion compounds, or solid solutions, in which water is the solvent. Molecules of water are joined together by hydrogen bonds to form a lattice which contains large cavities, molecules of gases or volatile liquids are absorbed by incorporation into those cavities. Some hydrate properties are unique. For example, one cubic meter of hydrate contains 164.6 m3 of methane measured at standard conditions, which in hydrate state occupies a volume of only 0.2074 m3 . The specific volume of the hydrate solid is 26 to 32% larger than that of water, compared with a 9% increase for the transition from water to ice. As a result, crystallization at constant volume can produce pressures up to 300 MPa. Conversely, the pressures of free methane gas resulting from dissociation of the solid hydrate at constant volume in a closed container can be as large as 80 to 100 MPa. Gas hydrates commonly form in oil and gas wells and pipelines. As a result, most of the practical interest to date has been directed towards the prevention or removal of hydrates in oil and gas production equipment. The existence of hydrates in nature was proved in the 1960''s (Makogon, 1965; 1966). Natural gas hydrates are among the most widespread minerals present on our planet in a metastable state. Because the main components of the natural gas hydrates are water and methane, these hydrates represent a tremendous potential source of mineral energy for future applications. However, more than 98 % of the naturally occurring hydrates are located under the seas, primarily in continental shelf-oceanic slope transition zones.



 Flow Assurance continues to remain a major challenge in offshore production operations. Current methods for avoiding gas hydrate problems are generally based on one or a combination of the following three techniques: (1) injection of thermodynamic inhibitors (e.g. methanol, ethylene glycol) to prevent hydrate formation, (2) use of kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) to sufficiently delay hydrate nucleation/growth, and (3) maintaining pipeline operating conditions outside the hydrate stability zone by insulation and/or active heating and/or by controlling pressure.1 However, for many production operations, particularly deepwater fields, those requiring long tiebacks, and mature reservoirs (where water cuts can be very high), the above techniques may not be economical and/or logistically practical. Thus the industry needs novel and improved techniques to tackle flow assurance problems for such challenging conditions. The new approach presented in this paper -HYDRAFLOW- aims to meet this need. HYDRAFLOW is a novel ‘cold flow' concept, which breaks from the tradition of straightforward hydrate prevention. Instead, gas hydrate formation in pipelines is intentionally induced and managed, eliminating the need for expensive thermal/chemical inhibition while improving the economics and practicalities of multiphase fluid transport. Experimental analyses of low and high GOR systems for various different production scenarios with and without AA (Anti-agglomerant) have been undertaken as part of HYDRAFLOW concept development. The effect of simulated shut-in on fluid transportability has also been tested. A new experimental set-up for measuring the viscosity of the fluid system under high-pressure conditions has been designed and commissioned in order to evaluate the rheology of the systems under investigation. Results prove that the concept is viable (at least under laboratory conditions), and strongly suggest that HYDRAFLOW technology could offer significant benefits over existing flow assurance strategies, providing a novel low CAPEX/OPEX solution for challenging (e.g. deepwater, long tie-backs, mature fields) operations. Introduction Generally, most of the existing gas hydrate flow assurance techniques are based on avoiding solid hydrate formation. This is normally achieved by either reducing water content, reducing heat loss to the environment (e.g. by insulation and/or active heating) or the injection of thermodynamic and/or kinetic hydrate inhibitors. However, all of these approaches have limitations, particularly in the case of deepwater operations, high water cuts (e.g. mature fields) and/or long tieback systems. As forecasted by ITI Energy, global oil and gas production is increasingly being dominated by exploitation of mature fields, meaning existing techniques - which are more geared to new developments (lower water cuts) - are becoming less practical/economic.2 Thus the requirement for alternative strategies is expected to continue to increase in the future. HYDRAFLOW is a new, patented flow assurance technology, which aims to meet this need. The concept of HYDRAFLOW is to be able to transport oil/gas without any thermal (i.e. insulation or active heating) or high dosage chemical treatment, thus greatly reducing the costs of multiphase hydrocarbon pipeline transport. The absence of thermal and/or major chemical treatment means HYDRAFLOW falls under the umbrella of ‘cold flow' technologies.



 Gas hydrates have been identified as a possible future hydrocarbon resource. Within the exploration industry various projects have been established to further understand and advance this frontier concept. This presentation will give an overview of results from a recent global basin screening of gas hydrates. The main objective was to define and rank the world's most prospective areas. A conventional exploration risking approach was used to evaluate and risk both offshore and onshore basins for hydrocarbon source, gas migration pathways, reservoir properties and sealing capabilities of the sediments. Seismic data, well logs and other relevant data including public domain data have been analyzed. Approximately 500 onshore and offshore basins have been evaluated and ranked, several of which reveal good to very good gas hydrate potential. Data examples are presented to outline the approach taken in more detail and to illustrate some of the characteristics of typical prospective gas hydrate accumulations. Based on the results of this study, we believe we have localized some of the more interesting "sweet-spots" from an industry perspective. Technological developments, the gas price and the continued increase in demand for energy will define if and when these resources will be exploited on a large scale.



This paper examines hydrate stability against changes in seasonal weather, sediment slumps, sea-level fluctuations with time, glacial conditions, and topographic changes with time. The purpose is to determine longevity of hydrate accumulations with geological time and to determine their impact on geological regions and stability. The results indicate that stable geological conditions are not always the best locations for hydrates-dynamical changes can lead to higher hydrate production and retention. The significance is that the perturbation of potential hydrocarbon accumulation sites by hydrate appearance and disappearance, together with the variability of the potential worth of the hydrate accumulations themselves, may play a more important role than so far recognized in evaluation of economic worth.I. Overview of General Hydrate Dissociation Conditions.The presence of clathrates (gas hydrates) is well established observationally in the offshore region of the South Caspian Basin, as well as in many other regions of the world. Hydrates of given composition can exist under particular pressuretemperature conditions. However, under the impact of neotectonic processes, those conditions can change. In that case part, or all, of the mass of hydrates can be dissociated and released. The dissociation can take place gradually, or explosively, depending on how fast the pressure drops or temperature increases.Five major variations of hydrate evolution are considered to illustrate possible patterns of behavior caused by variation of geological conditions: Variations in hydrate existence conditions due to sediment and mud redeposition. Due to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other processes, part of the sediments can be released from a sloping sea bottom and transported and redeposited in other places, thereby changing pressure conditions at the top of a hydrate layer. Variations in hydrate existence conditions due to glacial-interglacial conditions. Removal of ice cover not only decreases overlying pressure, but also allows water temperatures overlying the sediments to increase. Variations in hydrates due to sea level rise and fall. Enrichment of ethane in hydrates as a consequence of varying neotectonic conditions. Evaporation and reformation of hydrates in aeolian conditions due to winter cooling and summer heating.Hydrates can cause an explosive hazard for exploration rigs, production platforms and pipelines, especially in deep water conditions. All of the above geological patterns of instability should, therefore, be kept in mind when potential hazards are assessed. In addition, flame initiation by dissociation is also examined as a potential hazard, as are hazards due to drill penetration, warm circulation mud, and drill-bit heating of hydrates.In many areas of the world the prevalence of gas hydrates at the present-day, or inferred to have been present in the recent past, is one of the more influential factors in controlling geological sedimentation and attributes allied to the geological behavior. For instance, in the Green River Basin, Wyoming, the ENRON Corporation (1993) has estimated that a total gas (possibly some in hydrate form) reserve of 5,000 TCF exists; while in the eastern United States, offshore South Carolina, there are estimates available of major hydrates present, with associated contributions to dynamical instability (Lowrie, 1997).



:The methane hydrate is considered as an encouraging new energy resource because of its huge amount of reserves. Especially, it would be available under the ocean floors in the Pacific Ocean around Japan Islands. However, the reckless mining development might cause serious disasters such as sliding or mass movement of seabed. To prevent such disasters due to the methane hydrate mining development, it is necessary to understand its mechanical properties from the geotechnical viewpoint. In this paper, the relationship between compressive strength and density of methane hydrate is discussed. Based on the triaxial compression test results under low temperature and high pressure, static shear behaviors of methane hydrate and ice are compared. Compressive strength of methane hydrate increases as decreasing temperature or increasing pressure and it also increases as increasing density of methane hydrate specimen. Compressive strength of ice also increases as decreasing temperature or increasing pressure at low density, however, it rarely increases at high density. Through the above discussion, the void condition of methane hydrate is supposed to be different from that of ice at the same density. INTRODUCTIONMethane hydrate is a crystal of ice and methane molecules are taken in a cage encaged in a called cluster structure that water molecules construct under low temperature and high pressure. In recent years, it is being considered as an encouraging new energy resource to replace oil and natural gas, because of such the huge amounts of reserves as are estimated that it is to be sufficient to last over 100 years based on present levels of natural gas consumption. Especially, it would be found at the edge of the tectonic plates around Japanese Islands under the ocean floors in the Pacific Ocean (Matsumoto et al., 1993). Methane hydrate is stable under low temperature and high pressure.



 As the oil and gas industry moves towards offshore developments in deeper waters, the risk management of plugging pipelines due to hydrate formation increases in difficulty, which may lead to operation/safety hazards (Sloan, 2005). To tackle this challenge, the flow assurance community requires predictive tools to account for hydrate formation in flowlines (Zerpaet al., 2011). Although significant knowledge has been gained from mechanistic models for hydrate plug formation, there are still components missing for a comprehensive model, such as hydrate deposition on pipeline walls. Currently, field and flowloop data suggest the need to include and quantify hydrate deposition in the hydrate formation model (Lachanceet al., 2012). Agglomeration of hydrate particles by itself cannot account for large pressure drop observed during hydrate formation. Because hydrate deposition is difficult to decouple from other hydrate related phenomena (e.g., agglomeration), little to no research has previously been done addressing this phenomenon, particularly in gas-liquid systems. This paper details the initial effort to study hydrate deposition mechanism as part of a DeepStar funded project (CTR11203). Here, we present results that provide insight into hydrate deposition mechanisms based on experimental investigations designed to isolate this phenomenon from other hydrate issues. We have identified that water (hydrate former) reaches the deposition surface by direct contact of water with the surface, by condensation of water on the cold surface, and finally by liquid capillarity. Once the water reaches the deposition surface hydrate deposits form. We have also found that the rate of hydrate deposition increases by decreasing the surface temperature and these results are repeatable. We have shown that hydrate deposition on pipe walls is a key component for hydrate plug formation. The understanding gained with this investigation contributes to the efforts of the flow assurance community to develop a comprehensive hydrate formation model that could account for all the risks pertinent to hydrate formation in multiphase flow systems.



 The formation of gas hydrates is considered a major flow assurance issue resulting from high pressure and low temperature conditions during petroleum production in deep water developments (Sloan and Koh 2007). Gas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds, which can be formed when the pressure and temperature reaches the thermodynamically stable hydrate zone. Hydrates can plug deepwater flowlines, which may lead to the rupture of flowlines and spill or leakage of oil and gas (Sloan 2010). As a result, production and economic losses may exist during operation. Figure 1 illustrates the oil-dominated pipeline plugging mechanism caused by hydrates in an oil dominated pipeline. The process is fairly complex, with phenomena such as: (1) water entrainment or dispersion of water droplets in the continuous oil phase due to fluid shear and surface-active components in the oil; (2) hydrate formation, with hydrate growth at the water-oil/water-gas interface under a certain degree of thermal driving force; (3) hydrate agglomeration and deposition; (4) particle jamming and hydrate plugging. Among these mechanisms, film growth, deposition (bedding) can be categorized into hydrate deposition. Traditionally, thermodynamic approaches are used to prevent the formation of hydrates in flowlines, including the injection of thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs), such as methanol or glycols. THIs work by shifting the hydrate phase equilibrium conditions to a lower temperature and higher pressure, which makes the condition unfavorable for hydrates to form (Sloan and Koh, 2007). However, for THIs, large amounts of chemicals are needed, which will introduce high OPEX and CAPEX (Creek, et al. 2011). Hydrate risk management methods have gained popularity, as they will largely reduce the cost. The latter more recent concept suggests that by injecting low dosage hydrate inhibitors (LDHIs), including kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) and anti-agglomerants (AAs), the risk of flowline blockage can be controlled, even though the flowline may enter the hydrate stability zone. To support this concept, a comprehensive simulation tool is critical to predict the different hydrate plugging mechanisms mentioned above.



Carbon dioxide (CO2), which is one of the most abundant compounds on Earth, is present in rock, the oceans and the atmosphere. CO2 influences many biological and dynamic processes. Carbon dioxide is very soluble in water due to its high dipole moment. Solubility of a gas in water is dependent upon the temperature and pressure. This dependence affects the changing content of gases in the atmosphere, and the variable effect that certain gases have on the climate. Currently, many believe that the effect of CO2 on global warming exceeds 50% of the combined effect of all greenhouse gases. CO2 is present as a gas, or can be dissolved in water, or can be found in a solid state. CO2 can also exist in a solid state as a clathrate hydrate.Gas hydrates are known as metastable minerals, whose composition and properties are determined by the source components, temperature and pressure. Knowledge of the conditions of formation, stability and decomposition of CO2 hydrate with seawater and the mass ratios of gas and water during phase transition appears quite important. In this paper, we present the results of laboratory work concerning the kinetics and morphology of a CO2 -seawater system at pressures up to 50 MPa and temperatures of 268-295 K. Measurements of CO2 solubility in supercooled seawater before and after hydrate formation are discussed. The conditions of CO2 hydrate formation and stability in seawater that is under-saturated with gas are described. The research results reveal a number of details concerning hydrate formation and dissociation, including the limits of dissolved gas in water for stable conditions of gas hydrate crystals in the water volume. Also, the information can be used to interpret the role of gas hydrates in the global changes on our planet. The results of this work permit to determine the most effective technologies to control the content of CO2 in the atmosphere. We cannot include all of our results in this paper, due to the volumes of research data generated on this subject. However, many of our most important findings have been included and discussed.General Information About The CO2 And Seawater Used In This WorkThe following gas and liquids were used during the experiments.Gas: Carbon dioxide (99.9% CO2 + 0.04% CH4 + 0.06% N2 )Liquids: Salt (sea) water - standard laboratory mixture containing 41.953 g/L sea-salt composition (meets American Materials Standard D-1141-52 Formula A) mixed with distilled water.Table 1 presents the composition of the sea salt used to mix the synthetic seawater .The density of the seawater that we mixed in the laboratory was 1.025 g/cm3 at 15 °C. Of course, the density of seawater will depend upon the temperature, pressure and salinity of the liquid. For atmospheric pressure, the density of seawater as a function of temperature and salinity is illustrated in Figure 1 (improved, from Sea Water: Its Composition, Properties and Behavior).



Produced waters, due to the presence of salts, have a hydrate inhibiting effect. However, the data on hydrate formation in the presence of electrolytes is scarce. This paper presents experimental and modelling results on the effect of salts on hydrate equilibria for ethane and propane simple gas hydrates. This is a part of an ongoing research project on the hydrate inhibition effect of electrolytes in relation to subsea transmission lines where the proportion of water could he significant.The conventional graphical methed, backed up with visual observation has been used in hydrate dissociation point determinations. For ethane hydrates, dissociation conditions have been determined in the presence of 20 Wt% NaCI solution, while for propane, aqueous electrolyte solutions of NaCl, XCl, and CaCl2. with concentrations ranging from 3 to 20 Wt% have been used.Both Valderama (VPT) EoS with Non Density Dependent (NDD) mixing rules and Peng-Robinson (PR) EoS have been used for the fluid phases. The effect of salts in the water phase has been modelled by adding an electrostatic contribution to each EoS, with parameters from vapour pressure depression in electrolyte solutions. For the hydrate phases the model is coupled with the ideal solid solution theory.The predictions of the model are compared with experimental and literature data and good agreement is demonstrated.1. INTRODUCTIONWater molecules through hydrogen bonding form a lattice-like structure. This structure, known as empty hydrate lattice structure, is unstable. However, in the presence of suitable size gas molecules and certain conditions of pressure and temperature, the structure can become stable. The resulting ice-like crystalline substance, which can be formed at temperatures well above the triple point, is known as gas hydrate. Gas hydrates are non-stoichiometric and two main structures are structures I and II. These compounds are reviewed in depth by Sloan[1].Subsea production and transportation of unprocessed wellstreams is economically an attractive option and may significantly enhance the development of many marginal oil and gas fields. These subsea pipelines are however prone to hydrate formation which potentially can block the pipe and lead to serious operational problems[2,3].Removing water by dehydration process, changing operating pressure, temperature, and changing fluid composition by reducing hydrate forming compounds or adding non hydrate forming compounds are different options. Recently preventing hydrate clustering by using hydrate growth modifiers or coating of working surfaces with hydrophobic substances has received considerable attention. However the current industrial practice is to avoid the formation of hydrates by heating and/or insulating the pipe and adding a large amount of chemical inhibitors with a high safety margin. These methods are not economical for long pipelines and high water-cut streams.



The platform PETROBRAS 25 (P-25) is operating at Albacora field, located at the northeast portion of Campos Basin, offshore Brazil, about I 10 Km from the coast, in a water depth that varies from 230 to 1600 m. This unit, originally a drilling platform, was converted into a production floating system with process capacity of 100,000 bpd of oil and 3,000,000 m3/d of gas, P-25 is moored in a water depth of 520 m, receiving the production from 13 satellite wells and 2 diverless subsea production manifolds (MSPDL-I e MSPDL-2), with 8 wells each. These 2 manifolds were considered the deepest in the world at that time, installed in 500 and 620 m, and are improved with features like multiplex control pod and vertical connection. To reach this important mark, a lot of things have been done, including operational procedures to prevent hydrate formation. Nevertheless, seven months after the unit started producing, a total blockage in two wells in each manifold caused by hydrates occurred. The purpose of this paper is to describe how hydrate formation took place and the actions taken to unblock the manifold and restore the production. IntroductionHistorically, the hydrate formation in petroleum multiphase flow lines occurs after a shutdown or when the well went on stream. One classic example is, after an emergency shutdown in the unit, the down-hole safety valve (DHSV) of the well closes. Then could occur some gas segregation right down the DHSV and some free water right over it. When the well is open, the contact gas-water on a high pressure and low temperature ambient occurs around the DHSV, creating conditions to hydrate formation and, as a consequence, the production line is plugged. To avoid hydrate formation in P-25, the following procedure was adopted: Before open any well, we circulated diesel on the wellhead, flowing by the gas-lift line and keeping WI, W2 and XOV valves open. We calculated the gas-lift and production lines volume and filled them with diesel. Whenever it was possible, we launched a low-density foam pig, lead by the diesel flow, cleaning completely the lines. Then, we equalized the pressure over the DHSV valve, pumping diesel and keeping the MI valve open and WI valve closed, When, there was a diesel injection right through the DHSV, we pressurize the hydraulic line to open this valve. After the confirmation of the DHSV opening, we put the well on stream.Problem DetectionThe start-up of the wells AB-43 (MSPDL I) and AB-38 (MSPDL2) follows the procedure that was described before, with some changes, because these wells are connected to the subsea production manifolds. As we can see in the P-25 submarine system diagram (figure I), connecting each manifold to the platform, there are a main production line (10 in at MSPDL-I and 8 in at MSPDL-2), a main gas-lift injection line (4 in for both manifolds), a test production line (4 in for both manifolds) and a service line (8 in for both manifolds) used to individual measurement of the gas-lift injection.



The objective of this work is to qualitatively describe the primary nucleation of gas hydrates from water on a molecular ''level. At the present time, no such hypothesis exists in the literature. The onset of hydrate formation cannot be predicted because hydrates are complex solids that go through a metastable region upon cooling; thus, it is important to come to a qualitative understanding of hydrate formation on a microscopic level. I It is postulated that the concept of metastability, for which hydrates I are infamous, is directly determined by primary nucleation phenomena. To better understand the cause for metastability involved in this process, it is useful to review I what is known about the structure of water. Thus the work serves to consider hydrates at one end of the spectrum of water structures. The theoretical basis for the hypothesis and some experimental data are provided in support. Confirmation or falsification of the hypothesis will b:e the topic of future work. INTRODUCTIONThe goal of determining hydrate kinetics is to predict hydrate formation in order to prevent the plugging Of flow channels (e.g. deepwater pipelines, well choke and kill lines, ,etc.) by hydrate masses. Thermodynamic work performed in the past indicates when hydrates might form, but due to the metastable nature of gas hydrates, thermodynamics cannot predict the time when hydrates actually will start forming under the appropriate conditions. Thus kinetic studies are crucial to understanding what causes gas hydrates to be metastable compounds. Gas hydrate formation is a crystallization process which is characterized by two distinct regions, namely primary nucleation and the growth stage. The primary nucleation region is the process wherein a subcritically sized crystal may either grow or shrink before becoming a stable crystal.



A number of numerical simulation studies of gas hydrate reservoirs have indicated that the pressure reduction method known as depressurization is a promising technique to produce gas from hydrate reservoirs. In some cases, severe ice formation has been observed, leading to plugging and termination of gas production. Some researchers have suggested that if the flowing bottomhole pressure is not lowered beyond the equilibrium pressure corresponding to the freezing point of water, then ice formation may be avoided. This argument is based on the premise that the lowest temperature would occur at the wellbore. If temperature can be controlled to above zero by controlling the bottomhole pressure, then freezing should not occur. The objective of this work is to explore under what conditions ice particles form. Various cooling mechanism (cooling because of decomposition, gas expansion, etc) are studied in detail. For this purpose, a 3D mathematical model for gas production from hydrate reservoirs is introduced which incorporates energy balance, fluid flow and kinetics of the hydrate decomposition along with the ability to predict the formation of ice particles. This model is developed by modifying the GPRS (General Purpose Reservoir Simulator) platform to account for a number of mechanisms including hydrate decomposition and ice formation. GPRS is an object oriented reservoir simulator code developed at Stanford University. We will then apply this simulator to model largescale hydrate decomposition process in porous media, and demonstrate the effect of ice formation on gas production behavior. Through some case studies we investigate the conditions in which ice forms and becomes an issue. The learning for these studied are then used to suggest practical ways of avoiding ice formation. Introduction Hydrate particles are made up of natural gas molecules trapped in water molecule structures, and are considered as a potential resource for clean energy. Enormous quantities of methane gas exist in the form of hydrate in the permafrost and offshore environments. Large resources of hydrate have been explored worldwide including the North West Territories of Canada, Siberia, Alaska and Japan. In the last two decades much interest and research has been devoted towards the mathematical modelling of gas production from hydrate reservoirs. Three general techniques have been suggested to recover gas from hydrate reservoirs which are all based on breaking the stability conditions of hydrate leading to generation of gas; Depressurization, Thermal Stimulation and Inhibitor Injection. While depressurization does not require an external source of energy and is based on propagation of pressure drop from the wellbore to the hydrate decomposition zone, the thermal stimulation technique needs an external source of energy, not unlike those applied in the thermal recovery of heavy oils. Efficiency and economics of these techniques is the subject of numerous investigations. The first attempts to model hydrate formation and decomposition go back to the works done in the first decades of 1900's which aimed at preventing hydrate formation in the gas transportation pipes. Exploration of hydrate reservoirs and their potential as a new resource for energy has resulted in more research activities in the last two decades.



The stability of a natural gas hydrate during storage at atmospheric pressure and below-freezing temperatures was studied in the laboratory. The gas hydrate was produced in a stirred vessel at 2- to 6-MPa pressure and temperatures from 0 to 20°C. The hydrate was refrigerated and stored in deep freezers at -5, -10, and -18°C for up to 10 days. The natural gas hydrate remained stable when kept frozen at atmospheric pressure.IntroductionThe formation of natural gas hydrates is a well-known problem in the petroleum and natural gas industries. Hydrates are solid materials that form when liquid water and natural gas are brought in contact under pressure. The problem arises when hydrates deposit in pipes and equipment, causing blockage and pressure drop. Removing liquid water, injecting methanol, increasing temperature, and decreasing pressure are methods used to remove and prevent hydrate formation in pipeline systems.Hydrate formation need not be a problem. On the contrary, it can be an advantage. The volume of hydrates is much less than that of natural gas. At standard conditions, hydrates occupy 150 to 170 times less volume than the corresponding gas. Typically, natural gas hydrates contain 15% gas and 85% water by mass. It follows that hydrates can be used for large-scale storage of natural gas. Benesh proposed using hydrates to improve the load factor of natural gas supply systems. He suggested that hydrates could be produced by bringing liquid water into contact with natural gas at the appropriate temperature and high pressure. The hydrate then would be stored at a temperature and pressure where it was stable. When gas was needed for the supply system, the hydrate would be melted at low pressure.In Benesh's example, it was assumed that a natural gas hydrate was produced at about 10°C and 3.5 MPa. To remain stable at atmospheric pressure, the hydrate would need to be stored at a subzero temperature (about - 32 ° C). The idea was that the natural gas hydrate must be stored at a pressure and temperature at or above equilibrium.



. With the movement of offshore rigs into deep water, the problem of gas hydrates has become an important issue in drilling. If a kick is taken, gas hydrates can form in the blowout preventer (BOP) or chokelines while the kick is circulated out. The water-based pill presented here significantly improves gas-hydrate inhibition. This pig, which can be spotted in the BOP and weighted up, is environmentally safe and easily adaptable to offshore operations. Compatible with commonly used drilling fluids, the pig can be mixed directly into the mud system without any adverse effects after the danger of hydrate formation diminishes. This technology is an important safety consideration for deepwater drilling well control and hydrate-free operations above the mudline. IntroductionShell Oil Co.'s drilling operations have recently moved into record-setting water depths >7,000 ft) in the Gulf of Mexico, where seabed temperatures are near the freezing point of water. In deeper waters, the ambient conditions at the seabed (38deg.F and 4,000-psia hydrostatic pressure) are conducive to hydrate formation. Hydrate formation in shallow-water and onshore wells usually results from the presence of produced water. Several adverse effects may result. Barker and Gomez reported the formation of natural-gas hydrates during drilling operations at two domestic offshore sites. In both instances, the hydrates plugged subsea equipment, causing considerable difficulties in subsequent operations. Potential difficulties in subsea operations include (1) formation of gas-hydrate plugs in the ram cavity, (2) formation of annular plugs between the drillstring and the BOP, (3) plugging of the chokelines and kill lines, and (4) plugging at or below the BOP. We defined the following criteria for the development of a successful pill formulation. 1. The spotting fluid must inhibit the formation of gas hydrates for anticipated well conditions in 7,000 ft of water in the Gulf of Mexico (hydrostatic pressure=4,000 psia, well pressure=6,000 psia, and temperature=38deg.F). 2. The fluid must be compatible with a 20 % sodium chloride/ partially hydrolyzed polyacrylamide polymer mud system and/or other water-based mud systems. 3. The fluid should be capable of supporting mud weights up to 14 lbm/gal. 4. The fluid should have low toxicity, with an LC. bioassay value greater than 30,000 ppm. 5. The fluid must be nonflammable. We developed a salt/glycerol-based spotting fluid that meets an these requirements. This paper describes our R and D. Gas-Hydrate Theory Gas hydrates in drilling and production operations consist of cagelike water lattices that entrap gas molecules. Methane, ethane, propane, n-butane, i-butane, hydrogen sulfide, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide are well-known hydrate-forming components. Hydrocarbons that are heavier than butanes do not form hydrates. Natural-gas hydrates form two distinct, mutually exclusive structures. Structure hydrates form a body-centered cubic cell; Structure 2 hydrates form a diamond lattice. Structure formation depends on the components in the gas stream. Light gases-e.g., methane, hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, and ethane-form Structure 1 hydrates. Heavier components,, propane, n-butane, and i-butane-form Structure 2 hydrates. Nitrogen was initially thought to form Structure I hydrates but now is reported to form Structure 2 hydrates. The literature shows that even. small amounts of propane and heavier components produce Structure 2 hydrates. In our study, we focused on typical Gulf of Mexico gas compositions that cause Structure 2 hydrate formation. Another important consideration is the amount of gas trapped in the hydrate structure. Just 1 ft of hydrate can contain as much as 170 scf of gas. When hydrates dissociate, this gas is liberated. If it is released in a closed environment, pressure can increase con-siderably.he phase equilibria of gas hydrates have been studied extensively, and results are reported in the literature. The formation of hydrates depends on the gas composition (i.e., the gas specific gravity). As the gas becomes heavier, the temperature and pressure requirements for hydrate-free operations become more severe. At an isothermal condition, a hydrate-forming heavy component (e.g., n-butane) forms hydrates at pressures lower than those at which lighter components (e.g., methane) form hydrates. Similarly, at an isoboric condition, a hydrate-forming heavy component forms hydrates at temperatures higher than those required by lighter components. The composition of the aqueous phase and the presence (or absence) of a condensed hydrocarbon phase can affect the hydrate formation's pressure and temperature. Because temperature and pressure conditions are predefined and because water content cannot be reduced economically at mudline, the aqueous-phase composition is adjusted to suppress hydrate formation. Solutes within the water phase (e.g., salts, alcohols, and glycols) provide good hydrate inhibition. Also, such solutes often depress the freezing point of water. Freezing-point measurements are more readily made experimentally than gas-hydrate-formation measurements. In our study, we obtained the freezing points experimentally and used them to determine gas-hydrate formation/inhibition with our computer-modeling study. Computer Model We developed a computer model based on freezing-point data to study the formation and inhibition of gas hydrates in the presence of salt/glycerol/water mixtures. The solvent activity (i.e., water activity) may be calculated from freezing-point-depression data. For our model, we used the Moelwyn-Hughes equation: ...............................................(1) where aw, = water activity, Tf = mixture freezing point, and Twf = water freezing point (273.16 K). Eq. I follows from the general thermodynamic relationship. ...............................................(2) where as = solvent activity, Lf= solvent latent heat of fusion at Tsf, C = CpL - Cpcr = difference m constant-pressure heat capacities of liquid solvent and crystal, Tsf = freezing point of pure solvent, and R = gas constant. To derive Eq. 1 from Eq. 2, we must assume that C is constant over the temperature range of freezing-point depression. In a strict thermodynamic sense, one may do so for only a limited composition range of the solute in water. We relaxed this constraint and assumed that this relationship would apply to concentrations approaching 60 wt% glycerol in water. Note that the nature Of the inhibitor does not affect functional relationship between water activity and freezing point. SPEDE P. 109^



 Deepwater natural gas hydrate resources potentially exceed all other conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbon resources on a world-wide basis. However, before these offshore gas hydrate resources can be classified as reserves, it must be demonstrated that gas hydrates can be produced under conditions that make economic sense. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the technical issues that will challenge the development of deepwater natural gas hydrates.



Oceanic methane hydrate and associated gases occur in continental slope marine sediments in very large quantities. Current interest is being driven by the economic potential of these methane deposits. But their affect on the global carbon cycle and climate change, seafloor stability and safety, plus the influence on the biological food chain have only begun to be resolved. Survey, observation, measurement, and sampling methods must be developed specifically for hydrate system deposits as all occur in the upper 1.5 km of the seafloor in relatively similar marine sediments. Some instrumentation can already characterize these deposits; application of geophysical equipment should be directed toward the range of physical properties common to hydrate system deposits at the target depths. I IntroductionConcentrations of gas hydrate that extend over large areas are now being recognized widely in continental slope sediments virtually on a global scale1. Both single and multichannel seismic reflection surveys have revealed hydrate2,3 through the presence of the strong impedance contrast reflector at the base of the hydrate - the bottom simulating reflector or BSR. This is normally seen where free gas is present beneath the hydrate2, 3. Large scale surveys using relatively high resolution side-scan sonar acoustic imagery of the seafloor have revealed pockmarks, mud diapirs and mud volcanoes that are often related to methane gas flux4, 5. These surveys have also mapped large scale slope disturbances and sediment mass wasting often attributed to gas hydrate instability6, 7. Larger scale failures appear to correlate with regions of higher gas hydrate occurrence, at least on the European margins8. However this relationship can be tenuous in some localities, such as in the Mediterranean Sea, where gas hydrates are not known to occur widely9. This illustrates the need for better measurement of gas hydrate distribution in both area and depth.To date these wide-area survey techniques have been serendipitous in their revealing of the presence of oceanic hydrate system diagenetic features in that they were tuned to explore deeper geophysical - geological features10. The acoustic systems and processing were usually designed to reveal hydrocarbon exploration targets or crustal features of scientific interest. Methane gas flux and oceanic hydrates however, are confined to the uppermost 0.5 to 2 km of marine sediments, with hydrate methane resource issues focusing at between 200 and 800 m depth in the seafloor. The impact of hydrate on seafloor stability, safety and the environment may be confined to the top few hundred meters of sediment. A commercially successful strategy for methane production does not yet exist though Japan has stated their resources are on the brink of being considered as reserves. Therefore it is pragmatic to consider effective survey logistics for characterizing the various hydrate issues. This is relevant irrespective of whether gas hydrate is of commercial interest in its own right, is an environmental and engineering hazard, or an acoustic layer of scientific interest within the seabed. This paper considers the two important modes of gas hydrate occurrences and defines the current technology that can be used to effectively measure, or at least map, its distribution on the continental margins of the world's oceans. We propose an outline for survey and monitoring requirements for seafloors in which gas hydrate occurs.



 From the 5 year preliminary study, BSR was found in the East Sea, Korea. 1st phase of the national gas hydrate program has been conducted for three years from 2005. During this phase, 2-D and 3-D seismic surveys and sedimentary core sampling were carried out. After processing and interpretation of the acquired data, prospective area and drilling sites were selected. In 2007, KIGAM research team successfully sampled natural gas hydrate at the selected drilling sites using piston corer. Massive and disseminated gas hydrate samples were also found during the drilling of around 200 m depth. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are solid, ice-like materials containing molecules of gas bound in a lattice of water molecules. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low temperature and high pressure and thus, are found in sub-oceanic sediments in the polar regions and in continental slope sediments (Sloan, 1998). Gas hydrates draw a great attention for the last 20 years as a new clean energy resource substituting conventional oil and gas. Many countries including U.S., Japan, Canada, Germany, China and India have launched extensive research programs to study the characterization of gas hydrates and eventually to produce them from the ocean. Preliminary Korea gas hydrates study was carried out during the period from 2000 to 2004 and bottom simulating reflector (BSR) was found in the East Sea, Korea (Lee and Im, 2005), thereafter intensive gas hydrate study has begun from 2005. During the 1st phase of the program from 2005 to 2007, the extensive 2-D seismic survey, 3-D seismic survey and sedimentary core sampling were carried out and evidences indicating the possibility of presence of gas hydrates were secured. The geophysical evidences, such as BSR, chimney structure, gas seepage structure, enhanced reflector and acoustic blanking zone.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respects to methane concentration in the seawater in contact with the hydrate. Since the average methane concentration in the oceans is very close to zero the hydrate will not be thermodynamically stable when exposed to this seawater. The estimated driving forces for dissociation are limited and the dissociation rates is expected to be correspondingly small. Accurate estimates for the dissociation kinetics in a system with these small driving forces requires accurate values of the interracial tensions as well as other rheological properties involved in the kinetics of dissociation and transport of heat and melted molecules away from the hydrate/seawater interface. Work is in progress on the estimation of these properties using molecular simulations. I have also presented a nucleation theory for the kinetics of hydrate formation and growth based on multi-component diffusive interface theory. Theoretical estimates indicate that methane hydrate initiation from the gas side of the gas/water interface may dominate when compared to initiation and growth from the liquid side of the interface.INTRODUCTIONOne of the problems involved in the modelling of the kinetics of hydrate formation is that many pieces of the mechanisms involved in the total formation process for water and hydrate former to hydrate is still unknown. The nucleation stage is related to that of forming hydrate cores that are thermodynamically stable and as such will grow steadily. The actual content of these two stages, and in particular the nucleation stage, of the formation process in terms of mechanisms and corresponding detailed kinetic contributions remain experimentally unverified today.



The evaluation of gas hydrate resource potential continues to spread across the globe. Over the past decade, exploration emphasis has steadily shifted away from the confirmation of the presence of gas hydrate to the more complex issue of prospecting for specific accumulations of highly-concentrated gas. In general, concepts for gas hydrate exploration have evolved from a search for bottom-simulating reflectors to a process much more akin with conventional oil and gas exploration that features the direct detection of gas hydrate accumulations in seismic data supported by integrated geological/geophysical/geochemical studies that address issues of gas supply and reservoir distribution. This report aims to assimilate the lessons learned to date to outline a general exploration procedure for gas hydrate resources and outline remaining research challenges as follows: 1) delineation of the gas hydrate stability zone; 2) the identification and evaluation of strong amplitudes of the same polarity as the sea-floor (“peak” amplitudes) within that interval, as well as intervals of increased acoustic velocity; 3) mitigation of the geologic risk inherent in such prospects via seismic mapping of amplitude distribution along prospective horizons as well as broader seismic facies analyses; and 4) further risk mitigation through assessment of evidence of gas presence and gas migration into the gas hydrate stability zone.



 CO2/CH4 exchange in a sandstone-hosted methane hydratereservoir was executed in the field, following several years of laboratoryexperimentation.  Reservoir simulation and laboratory data informedfieldtrial design, including use of a cell-to-cell model that included correctliquid/vapor/hydrate phase behavior of methane, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, andwater. Most concepts for producing methane from hydrate deposits rely ondepressurization, heating, or chemical melting.  These techniques resultin dissociation of hydrate into its water and gas constituents.  Effectiveexchange of CO2 for CH4 in the crystalline hydratelattice, without dissociation, was long deemed an improbable recovery strategybecause experimental results on bulk hydrate samples indicated very slowreaction kinetics.  Recent laboratory tests documented enhanced exchangekinetics and efficiency, attributed to the increased surface area present inporous media.  A series of laboratory tests ranging from simple gas-richsystems to more complex gas-deficient / water-rich systems guided the design ofa field test program.  Ignik Sikumi #1 was drilled in 2011 on the AlaskaNorth Slope, designed specifically for testing CO2/CH4exchange in hydrate-bearing sandstones. Ignik Sikumi #1 was drilled vertically with chilled oil-based mud to a depthof 2600ft.  Four hydrate-bearing sandstones were encountered, andpetrophysical evaluation indicated the Sagavanirktok "C Sand" hosted thehighest hydrate saturations.  These sandstones occur in the subsurface atreservoir conditions similar to temperatures and pressure conditions of labtests.  Reservoir modeling with conventional simulators and in-housecell-to-cell models guided both equipment design and test parameters. Anticipated low injection rates and cryogenic injectant required the design ofspecialized pumping equipment.  Operations at Ignik Sikumi #1 re-commencedin December 2011.  Following perforation, over 200,000 scf of mixedCO2/N2 gas was injected.  A short unassisted flowperiod was followed by extended production testing via jet pumping. Results from the production test will be shown. CO2/CH4 exchange is a novel approach to recovermethane from sandstone-hosted hydrates.  Field trial has validatedlaboratory results and reservoir simulations, and has proven thatCO2 can be injected into naturally occurring sandstone-hostedhydrates.  Subsequent flowback/drawdown testing produced injectants(nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and tracer gases) methane, water, and very finesand.



 Gas hydrates in reservoirs are generally not in thermodynamic equilibrium, and there may be several competing phase transitions involving hydrate. Formation of carbon dioxide (CO2) hydrates during aquifer storage of CO2 involves roughly 10 vol% increase compared with groundwater. Dissociation of hydrate toward undersaturated fluid phases involves the same level of contraction. Hydrate phase transitions are generally fast (scales of seconds) compared with mineral dissolution and precipitation, and it is unlikely that a time-shifted explicit coupling to geomechanical analysis will be able to capture the appropriate dynamic couplings between flow and changes in stress. The need for geomechanical integrity of the storage site therefore requires a reservoir simulator with an implicit solution of mass flow, heat flow, and geomechanics. And because CO2 involved in hydrate is also involved in different geochemical reactions, we propose a scheme where all possible hydrate formation (on water/CO2 interface, from water solution, and from CO2 adsorbed on mineral surfaces) and all different possible dissociations are treated as pseudoreactions, but with kinetics derived from advanced theoretical modeling. The main tools for generating these models have been phase-field-theory (PFT) simulations, with thermodynamic properties derived from molecular modeling. The detailed results from these types of simulations provides information on the relative impact of mass transport, heat transport, and thermodynamics of the phase transition, which enable qualified simplifications for implementation into RetrasoCodeBright (RCB) (Saaltink et al. 2004). The primary step was to study the effect of hydrate growth or dissociation with a certain kinetic rate on the mechanical properties of the reservoir. Details of the simulator and numerical algorithms are discussed, and relevant examples are shown.



 Gas hydrates occur within a limited range of pressure and temperature that is found in ocean sediments and in association with permafrost in the Arctic. Gas hydrates represent an enormous potential energy resource, estimates of the methane gas contained in worldwide methane hydrate accumulations exceed estimates of the combined reserves of oil and gas that can be produced by conventional methods. The Messoyakha field, in the west Siberian basin, has produced natural gas from gas hydrates since the early 1970s. Gas hydrates and hydrate-bearing rocks and sediments are characterized by high electrical resistivities, high acoustic velocities, and low bulk densities (in zones of massive hydrates) relative to water or gas-bearing rocks or sediments. In oceanic settings or below the base of ice-bearing permafrost, well-log measurements of these properties can readily identify gas-hydrate zones. However, the presence of ice (which has similar physical properties to gas hydrates) within a permafrost interval complicates the use of logs for qualitative identification and quantitative evaluation. Identification of gas hydrates requires a combination of well logs in conjunction with gas shows on drilling or mud logs. Thermal invasion during drilling or coring can dissociate hydrates and introduce additional complicating factors. Although the physical properties of gas hydrates are well known, little is known about those of hydrate-bearing rocks and sediments. Additional laboratory data are required for calibrating quantitative well-log and seismic techniques for evaluating gas-hydrate-bearing reservoirs and assessing the their methane content. Some of the unique physical properties of gas hydrates can be measured by new wireline logging devices (e. g. , array resistivity, dipole acoustic, dielectric, inelastic and capture gamma-ray spectrometry, and borehole imaging) whose application may help distinguish ice from hydrates in permafrost regions, provide improved determinations of porosity, identify type of hydrates present and their distribution within a sediment or rock matrix, and they enable improved determination of the degree of gas-hydrate saturation in hydrate-bearing zones. New and improved measurement-while-drilling (MWD) logging devices offer the potential for detecting and quantifying gas hydrates prior to any decomposition and may provide early warning of potential drilling hazards. The U. S. Geological Survey, through its Gas Hydrate Research Program, is developing advanced gas-hydrate well-log and seismic models based on (1) laboratory modeling of tool response using actual gas hydrates as well as synthetic samples, and (2) analysis of well-logging data from the Alaskan North Slope and Ocean Drilling Program. This report summarizes the current state of gas-hydrate formation evaluation and discusses work in progress.



This paper presents a 1D transient model to be the base of a software to predict hydrates formation and evolution along the pipelines of gas production systems. To be able to predict the hydrate particle size distribution and the hydrate coat behaviour, a population balance equation has been coupled to a gas-water-solid transient transport model. Special care has been taken to describe the different kinetic and physical processes that affect the crystal sizes distribution and the flow pattern.



 Recent hydrate assessments from the Ocean Drilling Programme (ODP) and the Mallik Test site have advanced the techniques of hydrate detection and evaluation. Transfer, and some modification, of these techniques to the routine evaluation of hydrates as a deepwater geohazard is now needed. Early detection of a hydrate geohazard can be achieved by the integration of seismic, wireline and sampling data before full evaluation proceeds. Proxy identifiers of hydrates are established and seismic and wireline data, particularly where used in tandem, are proving effective at locating hydrate risk. Recent infra-red spectral core logging has shown the potential for identifying a hydrate signature in non-pressurized cores. No single proxy method of measurement is totally effective at identification and none, as yet, appears reliable at quantifying the absolute values of hydrate concentration and critical porosity. At our present depth of knowledge, a pressurized core recovery programme is required to obtain this objective data. Introduction Indications of hydrates have now been found worldwide in practically all deepwater with suitable temperature and pressure regimes. Production from hydrates has been achieved below permafrost caps in Siberia and at the test site at Mallik in the McKenzie Delta. Dealing with a potential geohazard starts with the decision of whether to mitigate or avoid the hazard. With the growing evidence for the widespread occurrence of hydrates, avoidance may not always be an option. Locating and evaluating a hydrate hazard will continue to depend initially on proxy methods of measurement and identification. The challenge now is to calibrate and integrate these proxy measurements with absolute values. The shallow gas risk of hydrates is present at all concentrations but the other major risk caused by the development of overpressures occurs when the hydrate dissociation increases the effective porosity of the formation above the critical porosity. The critical porosity is the level above which the pore fluid becomes load bearing. Porosity, ?, and the fraction of the pore space occupied by hydrate:- the hydrate concentration, ?, are thus the key measurements for assessing the hydrate hazard. Locating the hydrates Bottom Simulating Reflectors. The primary proxy indicator of hydrates is the identification and recognition of a Bottom Simulating Reflector (BSR). Potentially a BSR indicates the interface of the gas hydrate stability zone (GHSZ) with the free gas zone beneath. For assessment of the hydrate hazard the BSR has four drawbacks. Firstly, the hydrate BSR must be separated from other potential BSRs. Secondly, a number of observations have confirmed that hydrates can be present without a BSR. Thirdly, the BSR is just the bottom limit of the GHSZ so the vertical extent of the hazard can only be inferred by estimating temperature/pressure conditions and from theoretical hydrate stability envelopes. Lastly, a travel time seismic survey provides no absolute values that can be used to approximate the hydrate content of the sediment. It has been observed that BSRs appear to be sharper in some areas than others but this need not reflect varying concentrations of hydrate.



:Triaxial tests with controlled temperature and confining pressure have been carried out on artificial samples of methane hydrate to determine the mechanical properties for the purpose of studying extraction methods and related stability problems. The results confirm that the strength of methane hydrate increases at low temperatures and high pressures. INTRODUCTIONIn recent years the extraction of methane hydrate as a possible source of hydrocarbon energy is being investigated. Natural gas produces low quantities of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide compared with oil or coal and thus its use is increasing. Methane hydrate is a solid hydrated form of natural gas which is found at the edge of tectonic plates. In this hydrated form methane molecules are surrounded by a cage of water molecules. This form of methane is stable at low temperatures however under high pressures it can be stable even at elevated temperatures in excess of 0°C. Thus methane hydrate can be found to occur naturally in deep sea bed conditions or permafrost 1). In 1999 methane hydrate extraction trials were first carried out offshore in the Nankai trench close to the Omaezaki Cape in Shizuoka prefecture. Using oil exploration techniques this was the first time that methane hydrate was extracted from the seabed 2). Although there has been considerable research on the physical chemical properties of methane hydrate the mechanical properties have yet to be fully investigated 334)5)6). It is important to know these properties in order to allow the extraction of this material under stable conditions. Some uniaxial compression tests have been carried out under low temperature conditions’p) however it is important to establish the stability of methane hydrate under varying temperatures and pressures. Thus the work described in this paper was aimed at determining the mechanical properties of this material under varying conditions.



Gas wells located in Southern Alberta, Canada pose challenges for well operators. High bottomhole pressure in new wells, low bottomhole temperatures and Joule-Thompson expansion cooling effect often lowering gas stream temperatures to below brine freezing create favorable conditions for formation of gas hydrates in the wells and transportation pipelines. The problems are aggravated during cold winter months when wells and pipelines have strong tendencies to plugging with hydrates and ice. Operators experience significant monetary losses due to disrupted production and have to spend considerable amount on chemicals and time to clean up hydrates from plugged wells and pipelines.With subcooling temperatures often exceeding 14°C, kinetic hydrate inhibitors are incapable of preventing hydrates formation. A typical solution to such severe hydrate problems is pumping massive amounts of methanol or glycols to the well and production lines. Adding large amounts of thermodynamic inhibitors creates problems by itself like oxygen corrosion or solvent induced scaling.Earlier work in the field indicated a possibility of synergism between thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors and Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI). Systematic laboratory work was undertaken to explore possible synergistic effects between methanol and LDHI. A strong synergistic effect was discovered at a certain ratio of methanol and low molecular weight oligomer type hydrate inhibitor. These observations allowed a formulation of a superior hydrate inhibitor. Field results show the reduction up to 80% of the original and often insufficient methanol dosages. Due to this novel approach to hydrate problems, the operator experienced more trouble-free field operation and increased gas production, improved economics with less down time, lower total cost of chemicals and delivery.IntroductionGas hydrates form when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. The water/guest crystallization process has been recognized for several years, is well characterized and occurs with sufficient combinations of temperature and pressure.1 Light hydrocarbons, methane-to-heptanes, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide are the guest molecules of interest to the natural gas industry. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, gas hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 80°F (~30°C). Gas transmission lines and new gas wells are particularly vulnerable to being blocked with hydrates.Formation of gas hydrates can be eliminated or hindered by several methods. The thermodynamic prevention methods control or eliminate elements necessary for hydrate formation: the presence of hydrate forming guest molecules, the presence of water, high pressure and low temperature. The elimination of any one of these four factors from a system would preclude the formation of hydrates. Unfortunately, elimination of these hydrate elements is often impractical or even impossible. Transmission lines heating and insulating is a common mechanical solution to hydrate problems often encountered in long subsea pipelines. Hydrates will never form if the gas/water system is kept above the hydrate formation temperature. Gas dehydration is another method of removing a hydrate component. However, in a practical field operation, water can be economically removed to a certain vapor pressure only and residual water vapors are always present in a dry gas. Hydrate plugs in "dry" gas lines have been reported in the past2.The addition of chemicals to the gas/water streams is the most common method of preventing hydrate formation. Large amounts of alcohols, glycols or salts are being utilized. These additives thermodynamically destabilize hydrates and effectively lower the temperature of hydrate formation. They function by bonding to water molecules through hydrogen bonds or solvation.



As it becomes profitable to extract oil and gas from smaller reservoirs, jumpers (t-offs) connected to the main flowlines become necessary. Hydrate management of these jumpers may be solved by electrical heating systems. This requires development of new subsea electric power components. The most vital component is a transformer qualified for marine applications as this transformer shall be supplied by utilizing the main flowline heating system (DEH).



ECONOMIC USE OF HYDRATES: DREAM OR REALITY G.A.Cherkashev and Research Institute for Geology and Mineral Resources of the Ocean "VNIIOkeangeologia", V.A.Soloviev St.Petersburg, Russia  The importance of natural gas hydrates as a potential fossil fuel is a subject of much current interest. However, it is still impossible to unambiguously answer the question "Economic use of hydrates: dream or reality?". We lack sufficient knowledge and the required stage of research work has not been accomplished yet. Most of the gas hydrate occurrences in the World Ocean (42 of 64) has emerged from indirect features, mainly from observations of the Bottom Simulating Reflector (BSR). The nature of BSR cannot be indicative of particular gas hydrate accumulations but only justify the gas hydrate prone areas. The available global estimates of gas amount in natural gas hydrates differ by more than four orders of magnitude (1.8·1014 to 7.6·1018 m3). Most of the published estimates are overestimated, because they are based on a paradigm formed at the early stage of research and it states that submarine gas hydrates are marked by a continuous distribution over large areas and at a wide range of subbottom depths and by a high hydrate content of deposits. These considerations do not comply with observational data, namely, has hydrates show discrete occurrence as isolate accumulations. The estimates 1.8·1014 to 1·1015 m3 seem to be most realistic. In future gas hydrate accumulations related to fluid discharge areas will probably be more feasible resource. Such accumulations occur on the immediate sea floor and they are marked by a relatively high hydrate content of deposits. Therefore, we have all the ground to suggest that gas resources in hydrates of these accumulations are renewable. Introduction The first reliable discovery of gas hydrates took place less than a quarter of a century ago: they were reported and described from the Black Sea in 19741 and Caspian Sea in 19792. The intense study of natural gas hydrates especially during the last decade was caused by several reasons. Gas hydrates are considered as a potential fossil fuel; as a source atmospheric emission of greenhouse gas; as a factor affecting instability of continental and island slopes; as an environment component complicating the economic activity during the development of the offshore natural resources. Globally, the interest to natural gas hydrates as a possible energy source capable to deficit of hydrocarbons in the future was stirred up primarily by a huge amount of gas in hydrates mentioned in numerous published estimates. However, the estimates differ by several orders of magnitude implying uncertainty concerning the real extent of gas hydrates in the earth interior, primarily submarine. All the other issues related to natural gas hydrates are considered to be secondary to the above mentioned. The paper 1) provides an overview and analysis of observations of gas hydrates and their features



 Years of research and development, as well as field experience has moved the hydrate management philosophy towards less conservative operations. Previously, the standard was to avoid gas hydrates altogether. Now, on the other hand, the industry is more often looking into how to "live with hydrates" meaning that they are willing to accept the risk of hydrate formation given that there are enough evidence that the hydrates will not plug the pipeline. This paper presents some of the experimental techniques and methods used to realize an effective hydrate management strategy by investigating hydrate properties with regard to plugging and possible slurry transport.



Natural gas hydrates have been proposed to capture associated gas produced from offshore marginal oil fields. To evaluate slurry based hydrate technology, the flow properties of both water-based and oil-based hydrate slurries were investigated for different hydrate concentrations. This paper summarizes the production of oil-based hydrate slurries and the flow experiments performed on these slurries. The flow experiments were carried out in laminar and turbulent flow in a high-pressure pipe viscometer in the hydrate laboratory at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).



 The Natural Gas Hydrate Program Expedition (NGHP) has been formed to explore and develop the gas hydrate resources of Indian subcontinent in three stages. The first stage was to identify the presence of gas hydrate deposits in Indian Offshore Basins and the second stage was to identify gas hydrate in sand rich geological setting within gas hydrate stability zone and suitable locations for production testing. During the second stage, 42 gas hydrate wells at 25 sites were completed in deep water areas of Krishna Godavari and Mahanadi offshore in Eastern Coast of India. This paper provides an insight into formation evaluation techniques as effective tools of evaluating gas hydrate saturation. During the second stage of the expedition; LWD, wireline well log data and pressure cores were acquired and they have been used for estimation and validation of gas hydrate saturations. The gas hydrate saturation have been estimated by three methods viz., standard deterministic Archie method, probabilistic method using ELANPlus model and Density Magnetic Resonance (DMR) technique. This paper also emphasizes the estimation of gas hydrate saturation considering gas hydrate as a part of matrix in the ELANPlus model and validation with pressure core results. In Petrophysical model, hydrate can be considered either as a pore-filling hydrocarbon (fluid) or as a matrix mineral (rock constituent). When it is assigned as a pore-filling hydrocarbon, the model calculates the matrix volumes & porosity and calculates the water saturation in the same way as the basic interpretation model. When the hydrate is considered as a constituent of the matrix in the model, hydrate volume is calculated and the hydrate saturation is then arrived at by dividing this volume by the total porosity. Hydrate is invisible to Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) measurements. In DMR technique, the deficit in NMR porosity as compared to Density porosity is used to estimate the hydrate volume accurately. Gas hydrate saturation estimation in one of the well drilled during the second stage of the expedition from Krishna Godavari basin is discussed in detail in this paper. Gas hydrate saturation estimated from DMR method is found to be close agreement with other methods such as deterministic Archie and ELANPlus based probabilistic methods. The gas hydrate saturation is found to be in the range of 20-60% in the considered well. The results have been validated with gas hydrate saturation obtained from pressure cores retrieved from the nearby core hole. The present approach is to estimate gas hydrate saturation with different methods and validation with pressure core data to minimize uncertainty in estimation of petrophysical parameters for such type of unconventional reservoirs.



 Unrestricted fluid flow of oil and gas streams is crucial to the petroleum industry. Unless preventative action is taken, gas hydrate plugs form under the high pressure, low temperature conditions inherent to offshore production. The oil and gas industry is facing increasing costs in inhibiting gas hydrate formation due to the development of offshore gas reservoirs. Recent international estimates of the cost of the conventional inhibitor, methanol, alone are in excess of $150 million/year. Gas hydrates are likely to form in subsea flowlines unless the water is removed down to the lowest dew point encountered, highly effective insulation is in place, or inhibitors are used. Since complete stripping of water from condensates and/or natural gas is prohibitively expensive, and effective insulation is beyond current economic limits, the most effective solution includes the use of hydrate inhibitors.This paper describes the state of the art of hydrate prevention, detailing hydrate structure, conditions and mechanisms of formation, and developing approaches - from the conventional to the cutting-edge - to hydrate inhibition. Its focus on low-dosage inhibitors, including a review of kinetic inhibitors and anti-agglomerants form, function, development, selection, modeling and applications, highlights gaps in current knowledge. Finally, a research agenda addressing both mitigation and deployment strategies is proposed.INTRODUCTIONSince the 1930's when Hammerschmidt1 determined that the material plugging pipelines was gas hydrates, interest in gas hydrates has continued to increase. Hammerschmidt's discovery led to the regulation of the water content in natural gas pipelines2. In 1934, Hammerschmidt published a correlation summary of over one hundred hydrate formation data points.Unrestricted and problem-free flow of petroleum products during extraction, processing, and transportation is essential to the oil and gas industry. Whether heavy hydrocarbons such as crude oil, or low molecular weight hydrocarbons such as natural gas and natural gas liquids are the target end product, natural gas is almost always present in the fluid extracted during production. To varying degrees (most often low early in the life of a reservoir and high toward the end), the extracted oil and gas mixture also contains water. In the presence of water, and under a fixed range of pressure and temperature conditions, specific to each hydrocarbon mixture, hydrates of the light gases can form. Gas hydrates, which have a crystalline structure analogous to that of ice, form solid plugs and block the flow. Clearly, inhibition of hydrate formation is of utmost interest to industry. Hydrate formation is a substantial problem in deepwater production and underwater pipelines, which transport condensed phase hydrocarbons such as gas condensate or crude oil. In these situations, once plugs have formed, there are limited possibilities for removal2.Since the 1970's, the oil and gas industry has faced increasing costs associated with inhibition of gas hydrate formation, due to the development of offshore gas reservoirs. Recent international estimates of the cost of the conventional inhibitor, methanol, alone, are in excess of $150 million/year3. Gas hydrates are likely to form in subsea flowlines unless the water is removed down to the lowest dew point encountered, highly effective insulation is in place, or inhibitors are used. The first option is difficult when supersaturated condensates exist in the flowline even after the gas phase is stripped to saturation levels. Stripping condensate completely of water is prohibitively expensive and effective insulation is beyond current economic limits. Therefore, the most effective solution appears to be the use of inhibitors. Generically, there are two kinds of hydrate inhibitors: thermodynamic inhibitors, and the more recently identified low-dosage inhibitors. Thermodynamic inhibitors have been in use for a long time, and continue to be the industry standard. This kind of inhibitor works as an antifreeze by involving the water in a thermodynamically favourable relationship, so that it is not available for reaction with the gas.



. The occurrence of in-situ natural gas hydrates in the arctic North Slope of Alaska is governed by several thermodynamic and geologic parameters, such as mean annual surface temperature, geothermal gradients parameters, such as mean annual surface temperature, geothermal gradients above and below the base of the permafrost, pore-fluid salinity, permafrost base depth and temperature, subsurface pressure, and composition. Accurate knowledge of these parameters is necessary to determine the depths and thicknesses of zones of potential hydrate occurrences. The role of the parameters is discussed in this paper. To determine the hydrate-stability parameters is discussed in this paper. To determine the hydrate-stability zone, a nomogram has been developed and has been used for several Alaskan wells. For further delineation of gas hydrates, the neutron-transit-time crossplots have served as a valuable tool. To quantify gas hydrate deposits in terms of thickness, porosity, and saturation; use of neutron- and sonic-porosity-correction factors and Pickett crossplots is recommended. IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within the crystalline structures of frozen water. They exist in arctic regions of Soviet Siberia, Canada, and the North Slope of Alaska where low temperatures exist far beneath the earth's surface. Gas hydrates are concentrated forms of natural gas and contain about 160 to 180 times the natural gas by volume at standard conditions. Because of the widespread existence of gas hydrates, they are considered as an alternative source of natural gas in the future. Natural gas hydrates have been studied in the past primarily to determine how to avoid their formation in natural gas transmission lines. The discovery of huge oil and natural gas resources on the North Slope of Alaska, however, first stimulated interest in gas hydrates in these regions. In 1971, a study by Katz indicated that gas hydrates can be stable up to depths of 3,940 ft [1200 m] on the North Slope of Alaska. The first confirmed evidence of the presence of gas hydrates in Alaska was obtained on March 15, 1972. presence of gas hydrates in Alaska was obtained on March 15, 1972. when Arco and Exxon recovered gas hydrate core samples in pressurized core barrels at several depths between 1,893 and 2,546 ft pressurized core barrels at several depths between 1,893 and 2,546 ft [577 and 776 m] from the Northwest Eileen Well No. 2 in the Prudhoe Bay field. Since then, several studies have been done to Prudhoe Bay field. Since then, several studies have been done to identify and quantify the gas hydrate resources of Alaska. In 1983, Collett and Collett and Ehlig-Economides examined 125 wells in the North Slope of Alaska for potential hydrate occurrence. They developed techniques for detecting gas hydrates from well log data. In their studies, 102 definite hydrate occurrences in 32 different wells were identified. Godbole and Ehlig-Economides examined 34 wells in Alaska and indicated that there is a possibility of hydrate occurrence in 14 of the wells. Kamath et al. examined 46 wells and showed that gas hydrate deposits may be found in 10 of them. Collett et al. have used the Pickett crossplotting technique along with corrected neutron porosity and sonic porosity values to determine the depths, thicknesses, porosities, and saturations of in-situ gas hydrates in the Kuparuk field region. They have estimated that the amount of natural gas trapped in gas hydrates in the Kuparuk field is about 53 x 10 ft /sq mile [579 X 10 M /kM ]. Matthews recently described logging characteristics of gas hydrates in the Northwest Eileen Well No. 2 and estimated that the amount of natural gas trapped within gas hydrates was about 17.5 x 10 to 37.7 x 10 ft /sq mile [192 x 10 to 412 x 10 , M / km]. Gas Hydrate Stability The simplest and quickest method of identifying the zone of possible gas hydrate occurrence is to examine the gas-hydratestability zone. The essential condition for gas hydrate stability at a given depth is that the actual earth temperature at the depth is lower than the equilibrium temperature of hydrates corresponding to the pressure and gas composition conditions. The thickness of a potential hydrate zone can be an important variable in drilling operations where drilling through hydrates requires special precautions. It also can be of significance in determining regions where hydrate occurrences might be sufficiently thick to justify gas recovery. The existence of a gas-hydrate stability condition, however, does not ensure that hydrates exist in that region, but only that they can exist. But if gas and water coexist within the hydrate-stability zone, then they must exist in gas hydrate form. The factors affecting the stability of gas hydrates in the arctic regions include mean annual surface temperatures, geothertnal gradients above and below the base of permafrost. salinity, permafrost depth, subsurface pressures, and gas composition. These parameters vary significantly in the North Slope region and hence the parameters vary significantly in the North Slope region and hence the accurate values of these parameters need to be known in determining the zone of hydrate stability. Table 1 gives the mean and standard deviations for mean annual surface temperature, Ts, permafrost base depth, Dp, geothermal gradient within permafrost. Gfr, and geothermal gradient below the base of the permafrost, Gth, in the Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk-West Sak fields. The data for Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk-West Sak fields. The data for individual wells in these fields are given in previous publications. Fig. 1 shows a nomogram for determination of the zone of methane hydrate stability for specific conditions of mean annual Ts, salinity, Gfr, and Gth. The use of this nomogram is quite simple. First, for given salinity (in ppm) and mean annual surface tem-perature(in degree F). TB - Ts is obtained by drawing a straight line Then for a given Gfr value, Dp is obtained by drawing a straight line through TB - Ts and Gfr, values. TB is the permafrost base temperature. For that value of Dp, the upper and lower boundaries othe methane-hydratestability zone are determined for the corresponding values of Gfr and Gth. Osterkamp and Payne and Zoeller have suggested that subsurface pressure for the shallow units on the North Slope can be assumed to be in a hydrostatic equilibrium (0.435 psi/ft [9.84 kPa/m]). A shallow subsurface drillstem test and repeat formation tests support the assumption of hydrostatic variation in pressure. The nomogram developed in this study assumes hydrostatic variation in pressure. The sensitivity analysis shows that the hydrate-stability zone increases by about 2.75% per percent increase pressure gradient above hydrostatic value. pressure gradient above hydrostatic value. SPEFE P. 263



 The evaluation of gas hydrate resource potential continues to spread across the globe. Over the past decade, exploration emphasis has steadily shifted away from the confirmation of the presence of gas hydrate to the more complex issue of prospecting for specific accumulations of highly-concentrated gas. In general, concepts for gas hydrate exploration have evolved from a search for bottom-simulating reflectors to a process much more akin with conventional oil and gas exploration that features the direct detection of gas hydrate accumulations in seismic data supported by integrated geological/geophysical/geochemical studies that address issues of gas supply and reservoir distribution. This report aims to assimilate the lessons learned to date to outline a general exploration procedure for gas hydrate resources and outline remaining research challenges as follows: 1) delineation of the gas hydrate stability zone; 2) the identification and evaluation of strong amplitudes of the same polarity as the sea-floor ("peak" amplitudes) within that interval, as well as intervals of increased acoustic velocity; 3) mitigation of the geologic risk inherent in such prospects via seismic mapping of amplitude distribution along prospective horizons as well as broader seismic facies analyses; and 4) further risk mitigation through assessment of evidence of gas presence and gas migration into the gas hydrate stability zone.



 Data acquired from major gas hydrate field programs over the past 20 years has led to much better understanding of the distribution of gas hydrate on the continental margins and how to detect them. Gas hydrate systems are extensions of the conventional hydrocarbon system but are much more closely related to biogenic gas systems. The temperatures at which most biogenic gas is generated is mostly below the base of gas hydrate stability which means that most biogenic gas has to migrate into the gas hydrate stability zone and has to be at levels in excess of solubility for gas hydrates to form. Gas hydrates had been considered ‘self-sealing’ but evidence from pressure cores and laboratory experiments indicate that gas hydrate deposits may need local seals. Detection of gas hydrates though seismic and other remote sensing methods has been demonstrated through drilling and coring programs. The GC955 site in the Gulf of Mexico is used as an example to demonstrate exploration concepts, through basin models, seismic detection, and drilling and coring results. Data from other locations are also discussed. A review of remote sensing data that could be used to delineate and quantify gas hydrate deposits is presented with an emphasis on low frequency exploration 3D seismic for imaging gas hydrate deposits at the base of gas hydrate stability.



Unsolicited. This document was submitted to SPE (or its predecessor organization) for consideration for publication in one of its technical journals. While not published, this paper has been included in the eLibrary with the permission of and transfer of copyright from the author.  A new method for predicting the formation of gas hydrates is described. The hydrate forming compounds may be pure gases or constitute a mixture like a natural gas or an oil. The influence of inhibitors like alcohols, glycols or salts for the hydrate formation is accounted for in a very flexible and robust program based on the method. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds which may be formed where light hydrocarbons and/or some other light gases and water are contacted at temperatures below approx. 310 K. As the hydrates may exist far above the freezing point of water they can cause plugging of pipes, nozzles and separation equipment which would not be foreseen by considering the possibility of ice formation alone. The risk of hydrate formation may be reduced by reducing the water content of the hydrocarbon mixture. It is however necessary to reduce the water content significantly, so that the partial pressure of water in the mixture is below the very low equilibrium pressure above the gas hydrate. Another and much preferred alternative is therefore to lower the temperature for which hydrates may be formed by adding a so called inhibitor. Inhibition is quite analogous to freezing-point depression and the compounds causing the largest freezing point depressions for water are also the most powerful inhibitors. Alcohols, glycols and salts are examples of good inhibitors and methanol is the most commonly used.



No preview is available for this paper.



 The growing need of energy and the depletion of the conventional resources i.e. the fossil fuels have led us to think seriously about the non conventional resources like solar, tidal, wind, waste energy, etc. Apart from these resources the science and technology is rather focusing more on gas hydrates. Natural Gas which is an important source of energy is being consumed about 85 trillion cubic feet per year. The current natural gas reserves show that they will last only for 60 years at this rate of consumption. But luckily the reserves of gas hydrates (natural gas) are enough so as to provide 100 percent of the present energy and will serve up to 2000 years, but we aren't able to extract them economically. The idea of 'EXTRACTION OF METHANE FROM GAS HYDRATES USING ANAEROBIC ARCHAE-BACTERIA' may not only help in extracting methane from gas hydrates but also may convert water and carbon di oxide present in gas hydrates into methane. In this idea, I propose the use of anaerobic archaebacteria namely methanogenic archaebacteria, to convert carbon di oxide and water to methane. The above process is exothermic in nature that liberates heat, which can increase the temperature of water above its boiling point and cause gas hydrates to liberate methane. The characteristics of the anaerobic archaebacteria satisfy the conditions of existence of gas hydrates. Thus, these bacteria may help in extracting methane from gas hydrates effectively and efficiently. INTRODUCTION Need of Unconventional Resources The people of the world use natural gas (methane, CH4), one of the fossil fuels, to provide 25% of the everyday energy they use. At present, this amounts to burning about 2.4 trillion cubic meters (85 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas each year. Unfortunately, we have found enough natural gas reserves in the world to last only another 60 years at this rate of consumption. This means that our grandchildren might see the end of natural gas. In turn these fossil fuels cause pollution on combustion, producing dangerous carbon mono oxide causing global warming. The solution to this dangerous problem is the use of unconventional resources, which will take care of our grand children. Solar, Tidal, Wind Waste energy are the forms of unconventional resources, the methods to use them effectively fail in some cases, say as in automobiles, in operation of huge machines in big industries. So this leads to the search of such an unconventional resource that is not only efficient but also available in abundance. This led to the discovery of Gas Hydrates.



:In this paper we discuss on fundamental properties of formation and dissociation of gas hydrates to reveal the dynamic behavior in the process of replacement and reformation of CO hydrate. Raman spectroscopy was used to observe directly the behavior on CO hydrate formation under in-situ condition. Based on the results, the rate of formation of gas hydrates was quantitatively analyzed using the original conceptual model of formation kinetics.INTRODUCTIONLarge amounts of gas hydrates are found in marine sediments and permafrost. To extract methane gas from its reservoir in a practical production way, it is necessary to obtain fundamental information on the mechanism underlying the formation and dissociation of gas hydrates and their properties, including kinetics and crystal growth. We have proposed an advanced method of gas hydrate production, by which methane gas is extracted from the reservoir by replacing methane with CO2 at the molecular level. Fig.1 illustrates the concept of CO utilization in mining gas hydrates. This method would be feasible to achieve the sequestration of CO into the sediments. The main purposes of this research are to elucidate the mechanism underlying hydrate reformation and replacement and accumulate practical data for completing the original concept of the proposed method. 22Gas hydrates are paid much attention as a new energy resources [1] and storage medium for COas global warming gas [2,3]. To accomplish utilization technique of this gas hydrate, it is important to understand the formation kinetics of hydrate precisely. The hydrate growth kinetics have been studied mainly at the temperature range below -10 deg.C, or above 0 deg.C. However, there are only a few detailed kinetic studies of COhydrate near the melting point of ice (-10 to 0 deg C.). Interestingly, it was reported that the growth rate of COhydrate increases remarkably in this temperature region [4].



Frequently there is a necessity for prevention of gas hydrate solid phase appearance in gas treatment systems, for instance, at gas-condensate preparation plants of Russian northern gas-condensate fields. The injection of methanol or glycols is commonly used for such purpose. In this work, technological schemes of gas treatment where injected methanol is used for hydrate control are considered. A simple, but reliable method for thermodynamic calculations of the hydrate inhibition process during gas treatment is presented. In this connection, a simplified approach for calculation of VLH phase equilibria in gas-condensate stream is discussed. Some new experimental data for VLH equilibria are presented where V - is three component gas phase (mixture of CH4+C2H6+C3He, which models the composition of natural gas in gas-condensate fields); L - liquid water phase (the solution "water plas methanol" in which CH30H has more than 00 wt%); H - hydrate phase. Computer programs are developed for calculating the optimal inhibitor amount for a gas and gas-condensate preparation plant upstream from a transport pipeline. INTRODUCTIONWestern Siberia IS the important raw material, base of the gas production industry of Russia. It should be noted that such giant gas condensate field as Urengoi and Yam5urg now provide the main production of gas and stable gas-condensate. The standard technological scheme for preparing raw natural gas and gas-condensate before pipe-line transport is shown in fig.1. Ordinarily It includes three gas-liquid sepators (S-1,S-2,S-3), two gas-gas type heat-exhangers (H-l and H-2), throttle (or turbo-expander, ejector) and some additional equipment Which is not essential in the framework of our discussion. A high-concentrated solution of methanol (85-95wt.%) IS injected into the gas-condensate stream before heat-exchangers H-1 and H-2. Then, the methanol water solution (saturated methanol) is removed from the separators and sent to the still for methanol recovery.



 Gas-hydrate plugging poses an operational challenge to offshore petroleum production and transportation. In this study, a computational-fluid-dynamics (CFD) model that uses ANSYS Fluent (ANSYS 2019) multiphase-flow-modeling techniques to simulate and analyze the effect of gas-hydrate flow in pipelines is proposed. For this purpose, the study attempted to integrate the ANSYS Fluent model with an existing commercial subsea-pipeline-visualization tool. To validate the simulation results, two case studies were conducted. The first study was about a pipeline whose dimensions are based on the specifications in existing literature (Balakin et al. 2010a). The second study was about a pipeline with more-complex geometry (M-shaped jumper with six elbows). The Eulerian/Eulerian method was used to model the multiphase hydrate flow. The population-balance method (PBM) was then used to model hydrate agglomeration and its breakup mechanism in the flow. A parametric study of the stresses in the pipelines resulting from flow-induced vibration (FIV) was conducted to identify the regions that underwent the maximum stresses and deformations under various flow conditions. The tool can be used in the petroleum industry to identify the operational hazards in offshore structures and to take necessary safety measures to avoid any potential catastrophic events.



 Natural gas hydrate (methane hydrate) is of growing importance for the oil and gas exploration and production industry. It is a potential boon but can turn into a costly menace. The massive supply of natural gas has a potential to exceed the combined volume of worldwide conventional reservoirs of oil, gas and coal. However, drilling through, analyzing and producing from hydrate formations is very expensive and highly challenging. Petrophysics - Integrated Logging While Drilling (LWD) tools provided triple combo measurements along with advanced measurements such as sigma and spectroscopy. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was used as gas hydrates are invisible to NMR and it is fundamental for gas hydrate identification to compare the difference in porosity from NMR when compared with density porosity. Density porosity computation using grain matrix density from the spectroscopy output correlated with NMR porosity to estimate this difference as an indication of gas hydrate presence. Geology - Since the target formation is highly unconsolidated, high resolution resistivity imaging tools were placed next to the bit to record images just after drilling the formation and before any possible damage. Fracture characterization and bedding plane information were helpful in interpreting the presence and form of gas hydrate, including whether it was disseminated or layered. Acoustics - The identification of bottom simulating reflector (BSR) clearly demarcates the bottom of any possible gas hydrate deposit. BSR was inferred from the P-wave velocity (Vp). Sharp decrease in Vp below BSR is characteristic feature in presence of gas hydrate. Drilled wells were just below the sea bed and in very unconsolidated formations, thus acquiring P-wave and S-wave velocities were very challenging. With the help of an advanced multipole tool, P-wave and S-wave slownesses were recorded and used for BSR identification and type of gas hydrate dissociation. Plots of saturation computation along with sonic P-wave velocity were an indication of the type of gas hydrate dissociation, which was correlated with the depositional setting interpreted from the images. Gas hydrates are predominantly found in deep water, at shallower horizons and at very low temperatures. Drilling through gas hydrates is always challenging as it disseminates under pressure temperature imbalances. The release of such huge volumes of trapped gas is difficult to control and can lead to a disaster. Reservoir characterization is also challenging due to the presence of massive, fractured deposits of gas hydrate in Krishna Godavari offshore, unlike disseminated deposits in sands. State-of-the-art LWD technology was used in National Gas Hydrate Program (NGHP) Expedition-02 in 25 wells to acquire all the required measurements for complete gas-hydrate evaluation. The penta-combo logging run consisted of high resolution resistivity images for fracture evaluation and depositional system identification. Borehole acoustics measurements were used for BSR detection and pore-pressure monitoring. Nuclear- Magnetic-Resonance (NMR) along with density measurements were also used to identify the presence of gas hydrates. This paper will explain the NGHP-02 in India with associated challenges and findings. It will focus on Logging-While-Drilling (LWD) data acquisition challenges and its utility along with other available core and wireline measurements in gas hydrate deposit characterization.



IntroductionThe presence of hydrates has primarily been a nuisance or a well control issue when drilling for conventional oil and gas offshore and in onshore permafrost regions. However, methane hydrates could very well become the new source of clean and affordable gas supplies in the United States by 2030. For example, if several large "sweet spots" of hydrates could be defined and developed in U.S. waters, the ultimate recoverable hydrate resource could range from 1,500 to 2,000 Tcf of gas. This is close to the current U.S. domestic natural gas recoverable resource, yet it may be less than 1% of the total in-place methane hydrate resources of the U.S.To achieve the long term goals of the Federal Government in regard to energy supplies for the U.S.A., the Department of Energy is committed to developing the knowledge and technology base to allow commercial production of methane from domestic hydrate deposits by the year 2015.Hydrates or clathrates are a crystalline lattice material consisting of molecules of water that have formed an open, cage-like solid lattice that encloses molecules of methane. Hydrates of a given composition exist under particular pressure-temperature conditions caused by geological conditions. The variability of the pressure-temperature phase diagrams for hydrates is caused by changes in geological conditions during hydrate evolution and by the chemical composition of the hydrate, which may have been enriched with ethane. Under changing geological conditions hydrates can dissociate and be released gradually or explosively, depending on how rapidly the pressure drops or the temperature increases. In addition to hydrates being only quasi-stable, the crystal structure of a hydrate packs methane so efficiently, depending on the purity of the hydrate, it can contain between 70 to 164 times the volume of free gas at standard temperature and pressure vs. the volume of the hydrate prior to dissociation.Methane hydrates contain enormous volumes of natural gas and are now known to accumulate worldwide on the slopes of continental shelves and below the artic permafrost where pressures and temperatures are suitable and methane and water are available. The existence and thickness of hydrates zones are determined by the influx of gas and water through shallow sediment, the rapid accumulation of organic rich sediments, the geothermal gradient, the water depth and sea-bottom temperature, and the gas mixture of the hydrate. Analysis indicates hydrates can occupy as much as 500 m of sediments.Because hydrates will dissociate or release free gas upon a decrease of pressure, increase of temperature, or combinations thereof; premature dissociation around the wellbore must be avoided during the drilling process to minimize wellbore instability and well control issues resulting from changes in the mechanical and physical properties of the sediments when hydrates dissociate. In addition, the hydrates dissociation into gas and fresh water will create a gas cut mud with a lower mud density causing associated changes in mud rheology that reduce hole cleaning capacity, which may cause wellbore instability and potential hole collapse or a pack off and stuck pipe.There is an enormous amount of information available in the public domain as to the characterization, composition, and the location of known deposits of methane hydrates. However, the know-how to drill, complete, and produce hydrates in commercial quantities is just beginning to be developed and has received little attention from the oil and gas industry.Although the focus of this paper is upon drilling for methane hydrates in marine environments, specifically in deep water, the issues are applicable to drilling hydrates on land as well.Methane hydrates drilling-related challenges include:Narrow margins between pore pressure and fracture gradient in ocean surface sediments and within the hydrate reservoir.Surface hole instability.Subsidence caused by hydrate production.



Deepwater gas field development and/or gas fields’ production in remote locations requires long tiebacks with low temperature and high pressure flow paths and complex seabed topographies. Hydrate formation and plugging is one of the most probable Flow Assurance risks under those conditions, and there is an urgent need for a better knowledge of these gas dominant systems behaviour regarding hydrate plug formation as well as effects of additives (Thermodynamic, Kinetic Hydrate Inhibition (KHI) and Anti-Agglomerant (AA)). Indeed, during the design phase of new field development, oil companies have to choose a hydrate mitigation strategy. To do that, important questions rapidly arise: What about the gas layer protection? How can non-volatile additives act/protect the non-wetted top of the line from condensed water hydrate formation in stratified flow? Is there a need to take/run some specific procedures (such as slug of additives) to avoid hydrate problems? The Additive and Hydrate at the Top of Line (AHToL) JIP phase 1 project's objective was to acquire knowledge and data in multiphase Lyre pilot loop in such gas dominant conditions. The paper presents Lyre loop pilot tests performed with gas dominant systems without additive. The hydrate formation was performed in multiphase flow. The pilot and tests results in stratified flow are shown. Two types of fluids compositions were tested: Gas/Water and Gas/Condensate/Water. The water to hydrate conversion rates are calculated. Photos of hydrate deposits inside the flow loop are shown. The plugging mechanisms identified show a direct correlation with the fluids compositions circulating



 Gas hydrate inhibition is a serious concern for operators who produce or transport natural gas at pressure and temperature conditions favorable for hydrates formation. As production goes into deeper water, hydrate control grows in importance. Ideally, operators want total hydrate control without the problems associated with Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THI), mainly methanol and/or Low Dose Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI). Past laboratory studies and field experience indicated that hydrate inhibition synergy is gained through the combination of Thermodynamic Inhibitors and Kinetic Inhibitors (KHI). This is termed a Hybrid Hydrate Inhibitor (HHI). Because of the performance, logistical and cost drivers presented by the use of methanol, any alternative approach would have to consider these three factors. Detailed studies were performed on several mixtures of polymeric and non-polymeric KHI, and THI to find best performing combinations of hydrate inhibitors. The objective of the study was to provide all of the benefits of the existing technology with improved performance, improved logistics and at a cost not to exceed hydrate prevention with methanol. It was uncovered that some KHIs combined together supplement each other to offer synergistic performance for significantly lower cost than single KHI products. The work to be presented resulted in discovery of few KHI/KHI/THI combinations that outperformed any previously used product. Oil and gas industry is continuously looking for more cost-efficient and safer technologies. This work offers another improvement in flow control assurance. Introduction Laboratory studies and past field experience indicated that hydrate inhibition synergy is gained through the combination of Thermodynamic Inhibitors (THI) and Kinetic Inhibitors (KHI) [1]. This is termed a Hybrid Hydrate Inhibitor (HHI). Because of the performance, logistical and cost drivers presented by the use of methanol, any alternative approach would have to consider those three factors. The performance has to do with hydrate dissolution in the event a hydrate formed during operations. A Kinetic Inhibitor (KHI) can prevent hydrates formation but cannot dissolve already formed hydrates. Anti-agglomerant inhibitors (AA) allow hydrates to form but keep the hydrate particles dispersed in the fluids. The logistical has to do with pump sizing; i.e. conventional Low Dosage Inhibitor (LDHI) applications require new pumps and configurations. Potential synergy in gas hydrate inhibition between polyether amines (PEA) and polymeric type kinetic hydrate inhibitors (PHI) has been reported before [2, 3]; however, this phenomenon was not studied thoroughly. PHIs are very costly chemicals, about five times more expensive than PEAs. The cost of methanol is far less than specialty LDHI chemistry.



A concern in CO2 storage in sub-seabed aquifer is CO2leakage, which may cause impacts on marine organism. To overcome this, storage of CO2 in the form of hydrate in sub-seabed sediments is proposed. By this method, the potential of storage amount is expected to be enlarged as well as the influence on the ecosystem can be reduced. To estimate the capacity and efficiency of this CO2storage option, the formation rate of the hydrate is necessary. Formation of gas hydrate at the interface between gas and water phases consists of two-stages: gas diffusion through hydrate film and hydrate formation at the interface between the film and water. This study aims at modelling of CO2 hydrate formation considering CO2diffusion in hydrate film and at obtaining model constants, such as formation rate and diffusion coefficient. By curve-fitting of calculated and measured heat fluxes, the rate and coefficient were obtained. INTRODUCTIONOne of the concerns in CO2 storage in subsea underground aquifer is a risk of CO2 leakage through direct faults or boreholes and it may cause impacts on marine organism near the leakage sites. Inui and Sato (2006) proposed storage of CO2 in the form of hydrate in subsea underground. The influence on the ecosystem can be greatly reduced because CO2 is made a solid and is stored for a long term. Moreover, the potential of storage amount is about twice as large as the aquifer storage, 18 to 180 billion t-CO2. Ohgaki et al. (1996) also proposed a method to generate heat when CO2 hydrate is formed and to supply the heat to promote the dissociation of CH4 hydrate. Komai et al. (1999) paid attention to the generation of CO2 hydrate at higher temperature and a lower pressure than those for CH4 hydrate, and suggested the production of CH4 by replacement of CO2 hydrate.



 Over the past decade, gas hydrates have stimulated significant interest and triggered fundamental research. Primarily, the focus has been on hydrate blockage in pipelines, and on naturally occurring gas hydrates. However, gas hydrates can be useful in many different ways that can be pertinent to our industry, thanks to their unique structural packing where only certain molecules can enter the gas hydrate cavities. Among the several potential uses of gas hydrate technology are gas separation, transportation and storage of natural gas, desalination, and carbon dioxide disposal. In particular, it is possible to (i) separate the heavier components (pentane and higher) from natural gas, and (ii) capture, store and transport natural gas. This paper proposes a workflow for capturing, storing and transporting gas in the hydrate form, particularly for situations where there are infrastructural constraints such as lack of pipelines. These applications of gas hydrate technology can have potential benefits to the oil and gas industry. Introduction The need for new methods for gas transportation is the challenge that drives the development of hydrate technology for storing and transporting natural gas (Masoudi, et al, 2005). The ability of natural gas to form hydrate in combination with water is a very interesting and useful concept (Makagon, 1997) and can be widely utilized in the industry. An important feature of hydrates is their high storage capacity. 180 volume units of gas at standard conditions can potentially be packed into 1 volume unit gas hydrate crystals. Gas hydrates can be regarded as a safe and easy way of capturing gas, storing and transporting associated, stranded and flared gas (Berner et al, 2003). The objective of this work is to propose useful industrial applications that rely on gas hydrate technology, based on selected gas samples (Table1). These applications include situations when: (1) Gas storage is required, and so natural gas is converted to gas hydrate and stored for future use. (2) Natural gas hydrate technology provides an attractive method to capture and transport natural gas on a small scale. (3) In the hydrate process of capturing natural gas, heavy components (C5 and above) are separated out as Natural Gas Liquids (NGL), while C1 to C4 are stored in hydrate form. The proposed workflow will be discussed using two representative gas samples (‘Dry gas' and ‘Sample 2'). The former is basically pure methane, whereas sample 2 has the heavier C5 and C6 components. It is assumed that these gases are produced from a given field, at a given rate. In this study, the PVTSim program (Calsep, 2008) was used for the evaluation of hydrate formation and expansion processes. Expansion of the gas from wellhead conditions is necessary to trigger hydrate formation, depending on the properties of the gas, as it will be shown in this analysis with the two selected samples.



This paper describes experiments on hydrate decomposition. Destabilizing reagents, such as methanol solutions or warm liquids, were injected into a pressurized cell containing synthesized methane hydrate or hydrate composites. A unique facility was employed to better simulate conditions that would prevail during in situ destabilization in hydrate-rich, deep ocean sediments. A one-dimensional model was developed to interpret the experimental results. The primary goal was to further elucidate methane hydrate dissociation kinetics under conditions relevant to practical gas extraction scenarios.INTRODUCTIONGas hydrates are crystalline compounds which occur when water forms a cage-like structure around gas molecules such as methane. Hydrates are found both in permafrost and in deep ocean marine sediments under favorable thermodynamic conditions of low temperatures and high pressures. There is growing interest in gas hydrates because of their potential as a future energy resource and the possible threat they pose to seafloor stability and global climate (for a comprehensive review of the subject see, for example, Max, 2000). Because of their greater accessibility, shallow permafrost hydrate resources located in the Arctic have been the most actively targeted for resource assessment and pilot scale research and development projects (Sharma et al. 1992).Several methods to extract gas from hydrates for energy have been proposed: depressurization, thermal stimulation, and inhibitor injection. These schemes are all based on the in-situ dissociation of hydrates into gas and water. In order to develop such methods safely and economically, it is necessary to understand the underlying physical phenomena as well as possible. Of particular importance are the kinetics of methane hydrate decomposition, since any practical exploitation of hydrate resources would depend on the basic time scales of the process. For given thermodynamic conditions, there exists a fundamental intrinsic rate of hydrate decomposition, a speed limit of sorts imposed by molecular constraints.



 The amount of gas sequestered in gas hydrates is probably enormous, but estimates are highly speculative due to the lack of previous quantitative studies. Gas volumes that may be attributed to a gas hydrate accumulation within a given geologic setting are dependent on a number of reservoir parameters; one of which, gas-hydrate saturation, can be assessed with data obtained from downhole well logging devices. The primary objective of this study was to develop quantitative well-log evaluation techniques which will permit the calculation of gas-hydrate saturations in gas-hydrate-bearing sedimentary units.The "standard" and "quick look" Archie relations (resistivity log data) yielded accurate gas-hydrate and free-gas saturations within all of the gas hydrate accumulations assessed in the field verification phase of the study. Compressional wave acoustic log data have been used along with the Timur, modified Wood, and the Lee weighted average acoustic equations to calculate accurate gas-hydrate saturations in all of the gas hydrate accumulations assessed in this study. The well log derived gas-hydrate saturations calculated in the field verification phase of this study, which range from as low as 2% to as high as 97%, confirm that gas hydrates represent a potentially important source of natural gas.



 In this particular paper we propose a new, and simple technique to predict one of the most important physical properties of hydrates namely the heat of hydrate dissociation (∆Hd ) at temperatures above 273.15K. It is shown that it is possible to determine ∆Hd by knowledge of the size of the guest gas molecules. To a first approximation, the enthalpy of dissociation is independent of the type and the concentration of the guest gas, with the size constraint. Also as a notable outcome most natural gases containing appreciable amounts of methane and propane should have essentially the same heat of dissociation. INTRODUCTION In natural gas production and processing, hydrates are normally considered to be nuisances because free water combines with natural gas molecules to form crystals which plug flow channels and impede flow. One recent literature citation (Boniface, 1990) of this particular phenomenon is hypothesized to have caused the Piper Alpha platform disaster in the North Sea. Great efforts have been devoted to prevent hydrates from forming and from dissociating once they are formed. Dissociation is normally affected by depressurizing the transfer line, before cleaning the line with a device called a "pig". Models for hydrate dissociation have been proposed by the laboratories of Bishnoi (Kim et al., 1987; Jamaluddin et al., 1989), (Holder et al., 1982, 1986), (Kamath and Godbole, 1987) and this laboratory (Ullerich et al., 1987; Selim and Sloan, 1985, 1989). In all of the reported dissociation models, the most important physical parameter is (lHd ) , the heat of dissociation, defined as the heat required to turn the hydrates into flowing phases of gas and liquid water. The purpose of this work is to provide means of quick estimate of the heat of dissociation, if the gas composition is known.



 As the world increases its natural gas development and exploitation projects, Gas hydrate will constitute a major flow assurance concern in most gas facilities. It is imperative to critically examine the various means of hydrate formation and effective ways of managing gas hydrates. This work considers gas hydrate formation due to gas expansion. It was discovered that hydrate formation may occur at the Joule Thompson's valve due to cooling during gas expansion. Hydrate prevention was effected by determining the critical point at which the expanded gas moves from the hydrate free zone to the hydrate risk zone. A comparative study was carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of methanol (MeOH) and monoethylene glycol (MEG) in hydrate inhibition during gas expansion. Hydrate formation curve and inhibitor performance curves were generated using CSMGem Software. MeOH performed better than MEG as 10wt% MeOH could prevent hydrate formation when the gas was expanded to about 3338 psia whereas, 10wt% of MEG could not prevent hydrate formation when gas was expanded beyond 3750 psia. This work will aid the engineer to assess problem areas upfront and to determine mitigating measures.



 Inhibitor injection is probably the most popular option for avoiding gas hydrate problems.  However, inhibitor injection rates are normally designed based on worst operating conditions (i.e., maximum pressure and minimum temperature) with significant safety margin (e.g., 3-5 °C).  Although the system pressure normally drops with time, the injection rates are not normally changed.  Furthermore, large quantities of inhibitors are used during start-ups and maintained until the system conditions at monitoring point is well outside the hydrate stability zone.  This is completely understandable considering the costs and risks associated with hydrate blockage which outweigh any savings associated with reducing inhibitor injection rates. However, high inhibitor injection rates are not sustainable later in the life of the reservoir when the water cut increases, hence there is significant interest in developing monitoring and warning systems that can adjust inhibitor injection rates and warn against any potential hydrate blockage. This laboratory has been investigating various techniques for monitoring hydrate safety margin and detecting early signs of hydrate formation for a number of years through several JIPs.  After screening many techniques we have developed two main techniques for monitoring hydrate safety margin (i.e., how far the system is outside the hydrate stability zone) and detecting early signs of hydrate formation.  The techniques have now been tested and implemented in many places around the world.  These techniques enable us to adjust inhibitor injection rates based on system parameters, hence a more reliable and cost effective hydrate prevention strategy.  In this communication we will present the developed techniques and some of the case studies. Introduction Injection of hydrate inhibitors is the most common measure to prevent hydrate blockages apart from dehydration and thermal insulation (including heating). There are three types of hydrate inhibitors in terms of inhibition mechanisms, including thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs), kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs), and anti-agglomerants (AAs). THIs inhibit hydrate formation by shifting the hydrate phase boundary to lower temperature and higher pressure, moving the operation conditions outside the hydrate stability zone (HSZ), while KHIs do not prevent hydrate formation but delay hydrate nucleation and hinder hydrate crystal growth within a certain degree of subcooling, which allows the hydrocarbon fluids sufficient time to pass through the length of a transport pipeline where the thermodynamic conditions are inside the HSZ [1-5]. Contrary to THIs and KHIs, AAs allow hydrate formation but prevent individual hydrate crystals from agglomerating together, therefore, maintain the hydrocarbon system transportable [5, 6]. 



Methane hydrates are now recognized to be present in substantial quantities along most ocean margins. Current estimates indicate that methane in hydrates exceeds fixed carbon in petroleum reserves by about a factor of three. This is a large potential source of energy, capable of lasting for centuries. In response, Japan, Korea, Norway, India and Canada are actively investigating the acquisition of methane from hydrates as an energy source. Their success could significantly restructure the global economy. While a large international focus is on methane hydrates as a source of energy, hydrates are also thought to influence ocean carbon cycling, global warming, and coastal sediment stability. Thus, methane hydrates are a significant emerging research issue. While the global distribution and quality of hydrate fields are certainly being pursued, this presentation describes more fundamental investigations of naturally formed methane hydrates. Specifically, the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) has initiated research on the influence of hydrates on ocean floor geoacoustical and geotechnical properties. In addition, NRL and Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) have studied methane hydrates from different regions of the world ocean for variations in structure and composition. This presentation compares the methane hydrate structure, composition, and source of carbon for samples taken from the Norwegian-Greenland Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. Structural analysis is compared using x-ray diffraction. Composition is described from gas chromatography, and the carbon source is identified with carbon isotope analysis.IntroductionMethane hydrates vastly exceeds other carbon reservoirs in the ocean1. Research demonstrates that both thermogenic and biological carbon sources contribute to the formation of the methane hydrates2,3. There is a large variation in the sources of methane between ecosystems. The carbon cycling that controls methane production in the ocean floor is related to a complex mixture of biological, chemical and physical processes. Physical factors on the ocean floor relate to motion of the continental plates resulting in expulsion of fluids and volatile compounds, flows of geothermal energy toward the sediment-ocean interface, cold pressure mediated seeps of reduced compounds, and high levels of land based carbon transport to the ocean floor. These processes result in a variety of chemical speciation through key elemental pools that enhance microbial activity. For example, ocean floor thermal seeps have a high flux of reduced compounds, e.g. CH4, H2S and NH4, that supports the chemoautotrophic population. These cycles serve as the base of the food chain where enzymatic oxidation results in fixation of CO2 into cellular biomass. In active regions this results in CO2 serving as the terminal electron acceptor and methane production and fixation in hydrates. The variation in thermogenic and biological methane sources influences the hydrate content and structure. The degree that these factors contribute to the hydrate stability and formation warrants further research. Results from this research topic will contribute to methane hydrate mining strategies, understanding of coastal stability and environmental health, analysis of ocean carbon cycling, and predication of global warming.



Hydrate management in deepwater production jumpers connecting production Christmas Trees to a manifold, or directly to a production line, generally requires the injection of large quantities of methanol to flush the line during the preservation sequence that follows a production shut down. The paper describes how thermal insulation, methanol lines and umbilicals are sized to prevent hydrates forming in jumpers. It then goes on to show how a low energy, electrical heating system can improve current operational practices by reducing the requirements for methanol injection and how this simple and efficient device can also be used to dissociate a hydrate plug and eliminate the need for an additional remediation system.A series of reduced scale tests have been performed at the French Petroleum Institute (IFP) in a 2" insulated pressure cell where several hydrate plugs were dissociated using the electrical heating system. The main results of these tests are presented to establish the thermal and electrical efficiency and to show that a typical production jumper can be preserved with little electrical power.The paper also provides details and results of a full scale test performed underwater on a prototype section of insulated jumper fitted with the heating and temperature control systems. These tests have qualified this technology for future projects.These experiments and tests have allowed the efficiency and limitations of the electrical heating system to be determined so that it can be used by Operators seeking environmentally friendly solutions for future deepwater developments that will reduce topsides requirements and simplify the operational hydrate prevention strategy.IntroductionHydrates are crystals in which cages of water molecules are stabilized by host gas molecules such as methane, ethane, propane or carbon dioxide. Hydrates that look like ice can form in production lines and plug them. For hydrates to form, four conditions are necessary: gas, water, low temperatures and high pressures [1]. These conditions are encountered in deepwater developments with subsea Christmas trees where warm production fluids containing gas and water at pressures of more than 100 bars encounter low seabed temperatures of about 4°C around the trees, jumpers and flowlines.To avoid hydrates, the first line of defence is to provide adequate insulation on all parts the subsea system including the Christmas trees, well jumpers, manifolds and the flowline loops that carry the production fluids back to the topsides on the surface facility. Passive insulation is generally designed to keep the production fluids above the hydrate formation temperature in the flowing condition and for a certain additional period in case of a production shut-down, often referred to as the cool-down time. During an extended production shut-down dead oil can be circulated around the flowline loops to prevent hydrate formation but this does not apply to the production jumpers where gas pockets form in the high spots and water collects at the low points.



 Gas hydrates are naturally-occurring crystalline inclusion compounds. They comprise compressed molecules of gas (usually methane) that are ‘lodged’ within a solid lattice of water molecules. For this reason, the gas molecules are called ‘guests’ and the water molecules are called ‘hosts’. Gas hydrates form where there are sources of water and methane under favorable thermodynamic conditions of relatively high pressure and low temperature. Objective of the study is to evaluate Petrophysical Properties from drilled well of NGHP expedition 2 for Gas Hydrate. To identify different hydrate formation and estimation of hydrate saturation. The Work flow to estimate Petrophysical properties is guided by the high resistivity, low transit time and low density. It includes evaluation of different overlays and cross plots of wells like picket plot to firm up different parameters. Porosity is measured by density log, water saturation using Archie's equation; gas hydrate saturation using DMR method and its validation for the results obtained from Pressure core. Electrical resistivity and acoustic travel time mainly used to identify potential Gas Hydrate zones with overlay technique from density porosity and acoustic travel time and other density porosity with total NMR porosity, along with resistivity log are used for identifying potential Gas Hydrate zones in this study. Porosity estimated from density log is used for calculation Hydrate saturation. Gas Hydrate saturation is estimated using standard Archie's equation and Density Magnetic Resonance (DMR) method. Wherever NMR log data is good, saturation estimated from both are in good agreement. Log derived Gas Hydrate saturation are compared and validated with Gas Hydrate saturation obtained from pressure cores. Very good Gas Hydrate saturated zones are observed above BSR in 21 wells in the range of 40-90%. Out of these 21 wells, 16 wells are also having Gas Hydrate saturation in the range of 30-50%. Good Gas Hydrate saturation wells are mainly in area B and C in KG deep water Basin. This study will be very useful in preparation of Geological model for estimation of Gas Hydrate reservesaccurately. This study will also help in NGHP-3 for identifying suitable sites to carry out pilot production testing of Gas Hydrates.



Current oil prices have shifted the offshore flow assurance philosophy from "hydrate avoidance" to "hydrate management". In order to manage hydrate formation in the pipeline, not only do we need to have a good understanding of the hydrate formation process, but also a comprehensive hydrate formation predictive tool is necessary. In this work, a transient hydrate simulation tool coupled with a multiphase flow simulator, which predicts the hydrate formation rate and amount to determine hydrate slurry transportability, is applied to assess the hydrate formation risk in an offshore gas condensate subsea tieback under design stage. A simulation model is developed using the geometry, fluid properties and predicted production data from this field. This gas condensate field has an offshore separator that connects to a subsea production line. After separation, gas and liquids are transported by export lines. In this study, the hydrate formation in the production and the liquid export lines was estimated using the transient hydrate simulation tool. Simulation studies were performed to assess the hydrate plugging risk at both steady state and transient operations considering different water cuts. This simulation tool has been demonstrated to be useful in modeling hydrate management during subsea pipeline design and optimization, and can provide guidelines for safe and cost-effective hydrate management in the field.



In this study, a computer-aided system for effective hydrate management is presented. A flowchart was developed to suggest possible intervention approaches to follow in the event that hydrates are restricting flow in flowlines. Using VBA® in Excel, a worksheet was developed to serve as a direct means of proposing an intervention approach to adopt after confirming the cause(s) of hydrate formation in the flowline that is monitored. The worksheet created suggests intervention approaches in a matter of seconds after a series of prompts to input the identified causative agents. The main causative agents considered were hydrate formation temperature (HFT), hydrate formation pressure (HFP) and Sufficient Gas/Water. Six scenarios of causative agent occurrences were considered. Scenario 1 was a combination of HFT, HFP and sufficient gas/water, the proposed intervention was to depressurize, heat flowline, carry out chemical inhibition and dehydrate. Scenario 2 was a combination of HFP and HFT, the intervention proposed was to depressurize, heat flowline and carry out inhibition. Scenario 3 was HFP only, the intervention strategy proposed was to depressurize and carry out chemical inhibition. Scenario 4 was a combination of HFT and sufficient gas/water, the proposed intervention was to heat flowline, carry out chemical inhibition and dehydrate. Scenario 5 was HFT only, the proposed intervention strategy was to heat flowline, carry out chemical inhibition. Scenario 6 was a combination of no HFP, HFT or sufficient gas/water, the proposed intervention was that the causative elements be checked again since hydrate presence in the flowline had been previously confirmed.



We have observed P-wave seismic anisotropy at the south summit of Hydrate Ridge (HR), Cascadia convergent margin, offshore Oregon, on walkaway vertical seismic profiles and ocean bottom seismometer data. Models based on the assumption of vertical transverse isotropy (VTI), require the vertical velocity to be higher than the horizontal velocity that is uncommon in the conventional sand-shale formations. Since HR is characterized by high velocity hydrate veins, emulating vertical layering, an HTI model (TI with a horizontal axis of symmetry) seems more appropriate. Our anisotropy analysis consists of two-steps, 1) building of 2D anisotropic model comprising homogeneous layers based on the traveltime-error-contour analysis assuming VTI and HTI medium, and 2) derivation of continuously varying heterogeneous model using a rigorous traveltime inversion with very-fast simulated annealing. Based on our result we established relationships between P-wave anisotropic parameters and distribution of gas hydrate and free gas at HR. Observed P-wave anisotropy are, 1) 11% (N-S) to 15% (E-W) in the layer A (from sea floor to 70 meter below sea floor) containing heterogeneous hydrate veins, 2) 7% (N-S) to 10% (E-W) in the layer B (from layer A to bottom simulating reflector) containing relatively homogeneous hydrate and 3) 3% in the layer C (gas-bearing sediments below layer B). Anisotropy values are proportional to the hydrate concentration at the HR. Distribution and concentration of gas-hydrates can be further used for studying possibilities of gas-hydrate as a geohazard, an economic energy source, and a cause for world margin stability and climate change.



 Dual function hydrate inhibitor (DFI) is envisaged to provide superior inhibition performances for controlling hydrate formation in comparison to conventional thermodynamic (THI) and kinetic hydrate (KHI) inhibitors. In this work, the performance of DFI was evaluated in high pressure Sapphire cell for methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2) system. The effects of DFI to the hydrate phase equilibrium conditions at various concentrations for both CH4 and CO2 system were measured in a pressure range of 3.90 – 8.30 MPa and 1.9 – 4.5 MPa respectively. The DFI is then being evaluated for KHI for CH4 and CO2 at 80 bar and 3.5 bar respectively at 274 K experimental temperature. Furthermore, the analysis of induction time and relative inhibition performance are presented for CH4 and CO2 in the absence and presence of DFI. The DFI inhibition performance is strongly evidence as it is observed able to shift hydrate equilibrium conditions, while at the same time prolong the hydrate induction time. In addition, hydrate dissociation enthalpies are also calculated for both considered systems and it was found the enthalpies are within the range of conventional hydrate formation, therefore it is evidence that DFI is not involved during the hydrate cages formation. DFI ability to simultaneously act as THI and KHI shows that DFI performance is more superior as compared to the conventional THI.



The mechanical properties of hydrate bearing sediments may deteriorate as a result of hydrate dissociation due to heating of the wellbore casing, with possible adverse effects on the stability of the casing. The authors have created a numerical model in plane strain in order to simulate the stability of a well-bore supported with a casing. The model captures the interaction between the formation, casing, cement and cement-casing bond. The simulation results demonstrate that the safety factor of the casing is very dependent on the quality of the cement, for with strong cement, it is multiples of the safety factor of the casing with weak cement. The safety factor for the casing with weak cement, in the presence of hydrates in the formation, reduces due to hydrate dissociation and the subsequent deterioration of the mechanical strength of the formation. This paper shows that in this case an effective cement placement around the casing becomes crucial in order to keep the casing factor within acceptable limits.INTRODUTIONCasing deformation resulting from reservoir compaction and surface subsidence during the primary production stage has been analysed and reported by many investigators 1,2,3. Generally the following effects can be considered: Pressure depletion in the formation, which can lead to subsidence and possible shearing of the casing Heating the formation, which can generate high stresses in the formation Deterioration of the sediment mechanical properties due to heating as for hydrate bearing sediments, which can induce large stress in the casing.Casing integrity for well drilled in hydrate bearing sediments presents a challenge that is explored in this paper. Gas hydrate, or clathrates, are ice-like deposits containing a mixture of water and gas, the most common gas being methane. Other gases of small molecular size such as CO2? H2S, ethane and higher hydrocarbons are also found in natural gas hydrates. Gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions, and hence they can be found in deepwater settings at relatively shallow depths below the seafloor and in permafrost regions 4. The dissociation of gas hydrates can take place due to a reduction in pressure and /or an increase in temperature, or due to the injection of certain chemicals that may affect hydrate stability. Once melted due to the circulation of hot fluid in the casing. Hydrate bearing sediments will suffer degradation in their mechanical properties (e.g, strength and stiffness), accompanied by overpressure development . Moreover the gas released by hydrate dissociation may undermine the quality of the cement supporting the casing (if dissociation takes place before the cement is fully cured ) and hence reduce the collapse resistance of the casing6. This the well by the surrounding sediments in response to heating. Some of the sediment considered are hydrate bearing sediments (HBS). The cements examined could be strong cement (foam cement) or weaker cement (hard cement). The cement-casing bond strength is investigated in the modelling. The modelling is performed using FLAC3D, which is a continuum code developed by Itasca Consulting Group 7,8.



Profuse formation of hydrate shells on gas bubbles and nucleation of at least seven different morphologies or species of gas hydrate have been achieved in natural seawater. By using newly collected natural seawater, which is a chemically and biologically complex fluid, our experiments in pressurized, refrigerated vessels closely track the growth mechanisms of gas hydrate in oceanic seafloors. Nearly complete pore fill by hydrate can best be accomplished by nucleation of hydrate at point sources within the pore water or on sediment particulate, with growth outward into water space that is refreshed with circulating pore water having high concentrations of hydrate forming gas. Recovery of natural gas from hydrate deposits will depend on ensuring a large enough surface area of hydrate exposed to the circulating pore water. Fracking may be required.IntroductionConditions governing the nucleation and growth of gas hydrates, particularly the abundant natural gas hydrate found in oceanic and permafrost environments (Max 2003), are imperfectly known. Formation of gas hydrate in fresh water or in water that has been "salted" to yield sea water salinity analogues under laboratory conditions has been observed to be much slower and accomplished often with more difficulty than has been observed to take place in natural seawater (Brewer et al. 1998; Sloan 1996), where nucleation and growth appear to be spontaneous (Brewer et al. 1997). Seawater is a chemically complex fluid containing substantial organic, inorganic, and living material. The influence of each of these naturally occurring constituents and their combined effect on nucleation and growth of gas hydrate under different conditions of pressure and temperature is not yet well understood.Where Hydrate Forming Gas (HFG) is bubbled into seawater under essentially isobaric conditions, such as from seafloor seeps, much of the gas (mainly methane) dissolves in the seawater and hydrate shells can form on the gas bubbles where the seawater becomes saturated with HFG. These bubbles naturally rise buoyantly into warmer and shallower water where hydrate is no longer stable. Upon hydrate dissociation, the gas may largely dissolve in seawater rather than reaching the atmosphere, especially where the sea floor seeps are not unusually large. Additionally, when the hydrateshelled bubbles are brought into conditions of reduced ambient pressure the shells may fracture due to expansion of the HFG. Where bubbles fracture where hydrate is stable, the gas will dissolve until local saturation conditions are reached.Large masses of solid hydrate have been observed at a number of locations on the seafloor near natural gas seeps in the northern Gulf of Mexico (Sassen et al. 2001) and on hydrate ridge on the U.S. Cascadia margin (Seuss et al. 2001), amongst other places. These are held to the sea floor by intergrowth with sea floor sediments. The large masses of natural polycrystalline hydrate are associated with profuse gas seeps and conditions of local natural gas saturation of the seawater. It is most likely that the large masses of solid hydrate have been produced by hydrate growing outward into water space surrounding the hydrate where substantial reactant (HFG) is dissolved in the seawater.



Traditional hydrate inhibitors such as methanol and glycols have been in use for many years, but at today's oil prices the demand for cheaper methods of inhibition will be required. The development of alternative, cost-effective and environmentally acceptable hydrate inhibitors is a technological challenge for the oil and gas production industry. These new hydrate inhibitors can lead to very substantial cost savings, not only for the reduced cost of the new inhibitor but also in the size of the injection, pumping and storage facilities. Thus it is possible to redesign production facilities on a smaller scale. A few chemicals have been tested in field trials already with mixed success. Certainly, there is room for more active and cheaper inhibitors. We will review the relative merits of the two main types of hydrate inhibitor, "kinetic inhibitors" and "anti-agglomerators" regarding their applicability, and discuss how test results obtained in the laboratory compare to real field trials. We will also describe new techniques for comparing the effectiveness and activity of new hydrate inhibitors and present laboratory results on various chemicals. Patented examples will also be mentioned. Finally, a comparison of model systems with real fluids with regards to hydrate formation and inhibition will be given.IntroductionThe oil industry is more than ever on the look-out for cheaper methods for producing oil and gas. In some mature basins such as the North Sea, to maintain the same level of production as today the oil industry must find cheap solutions to building out the many small and medium fields that have already been discovered. Many of these smaller fields could be built out with underwater installations and coupled to existing platforms. One cheap solution for such fields could be sub-sea multiphase production. This requires knowledge of multiphase flow as well as cheap inhibitor technology for hydrates, wax, corrosion, scale etc. In this case, the cost of inhibiting hydrate formation can be an important factor, even more so in deep water production.Besides chemical treatment and the use of pipeline insulation, a novel method is being developed for a field in the UK sector of the North Sea. This involves maintaining the produced fluids outside the hydrate region by having an outside jacket around the production line into which hot water is injected from the platform.Gas Hydrate StructuresGas hydrates can form several structures. If one is trying to prevent hydrate formation in production, it can be important to know which structure you are dealing with. The most well-known and most researched hydrate structures are called Structure I and Structure II. Structure H is a third form which was more recently discovered and has attracted attention as it contains a large cavity that can hold larger molecules than either structure I or II, e.g. some saturated cyclic hydrocarbons such as cyclopentane. Evidence for Structure H was found in a natural gas hydrate collected from the sea floor in the Gulf of Mexico. However, no proof yet exists that Structure H forms in oil or gas production lines.Which hydrate structure is formed depends mainly on the gas molecules, their size relative to the cavity, and the relative stabilities of the structures. The chemical nature and shape of the guest molecule may also influence the type of structure, Both methane and ethane form structure I hydrates. Methane can occupy both the small and large cavities of this structure but the filling of the small cavities that provides the major stabilising effects. With pure ethane gas the molecules only fit the larger of the two cavities in structure I. The larger hydrocarbon gas molecules, propane, n-butane (with a smaller hydrate former) and iso-butane, form hydrates of structure II entering only the large cavities (which are larger than the large cavities in structure I). A typical natural gas production mixture containing Cl-C4 components will preferentially form structure II hydrates.P. 531



Gas hydrates have been touted as the next generation of energy resources exploitable for commercial gain and anthropogenic use. It would then seem relevant to estimate the potential resources available in order that one has an appreciation of availability. Several such estimates have been made over the years for both onshore and offshore gas hydrates. This paper examines the relative percentages and the ranges of uncertainty for both the onshore and offshore estimates. In addition, the estimated resources are plotted versus the year in which the estimate was made to see if any convergence of results is being achieved with time as more data become available.The main conclusions are that there seems not to be any systematic pattern of convergence of resource estimates with time, nor does there seem to be any narrowing of the uncertainty of the estimates for either onshore or offshore resource estimates as more data have become available over the last twenty years. It would seem that a concerted effort is needed to improve estimates if there is to be any hope of assessing the commercial worth of hydrate resources and of deciding whether hydrates really do represent a significant exploitable energy resource on a worldwide basis.IntroductionAs a cleaner energy source than hydrocarbons, gas hydrates have often been advertised as an appropriate alternative. The fundamental question is whether there is a sufficient resource of gas hydrates, on a worldwide basis, to act as a dominant energy source for the future. To be sure there are also technical problems of extraction and production of hydrates, once found, be it in the onshore or offshore regions. But the technical and commercial risk problems are secondary in the sense that unless there is a sufficient worldwide resource of gas hydrates, then technical methods will not be developed to exploit a constrained limited resource. There would be no profit in so doing. Likewise, even if technical extraction methods already existed, there would be no worldwide xploitation of gas hydrates if the costs of involvement and recovery were to rise to a point were no profit could be made-much as happens with oil and gas fields today, which are often not produced because of too high a cost relative to potential gains.So the sine qua non is to first estimate the resources available. Indeed, this aspect has been recognized as the ultimate driver of potential further developments for over twenty years now (Kaplan, 1974). And, as new information has become available over the years, such has been incorporated in estimates of worldwide resources of gas hydrates both onshore and offshore. Since the early 1990's, after the dissolution of the Soviet bloc, much information has become available that heretofore was the exclusive province of the Soviet Union and/ or the intelligence gathering agencies of the world - most notably the CIA in America.



Avoidance of hydrates plugs formation is one of the main challenges of Flow Assurance in Oil & Gas Industry. To do so the usual approach is to avoid entering the gas hydrate thermodynamic zone by various means: thermal insulation, heating, massive injection of thermodynamic inhibitors, dehydration of effluents. This is very efficient but is becoming very expensive with harsher & deeper offshore fields and it has proven to be a very conservative approach, as there is not always a direct link between some hydrate crystals formation and getting a hydrate plug.Production with care inside the hydrate P&T zone is a major new trend in Oil & Gas field developments. In order to ascertain such production mode, it is required to develop new monitoring instruments in order to get more precise information regarding the hydrate plugging risks during production inside hydrate P&T zone.Such activity has been studied through a Joint Industry Project at the Heriot-Watt University since 2005 sponsored by Oil & Gas Companies. Some instruments and/or techniques have been developed by the JIP and two of them have been implemented on three gas/condensate fields in Europe & Middle-East from 2008 to 2014. This paper presents two of such hydrate monitoring instruments/techniques and the field tests results.



The economic development of many multiphase flow production systems requires a full understanding production systems requires a full understanding of hydrates and their control. BP Exploration has recognised this and has set itself the goal of developing the necessary understanding and ability to deal with hydrates and hydrate forming systems. Three key areas have been targeted for investigation to develop the tools necessary to optimise the economics of hydrate forming systems. An important advance by BP in the first of these key areas is presented. The new BP phase equilibrium hydrate formulation is used to rigorously examine options for using a range of pure and mixed inhibitors. THE NATURE OF THE CHALLENGE BackgroundProducing oil and gas from offshore discoveries Producing oil and gas from offshore discoveries which are increasingly difficult to commercialise is probably the biggest challenge to the petroleum industry in the North Sea today. This petroleum industry in the North Sea today. This is a natural consequence of a maturing exploration province. In general, the undeveloped hydrocarbon deposits are becoming smaller, deeper (both in terms of water and reservoir depths) and are increasingly likely to be lore highly pressured and of higher gas to oil ratio. In pressured and of higher gas to oil ratio. In some cases the field cannot be fully produced from one location alone, but, at the sane time, the economics cannot support the cost of more than one or two main producing structures. In many cases the way to economic exploitation is seen to be through the development of subsea or minimal surface facility tie-backs. This invariably requires extended multiphase transportation of water wet hydrocarbons to a central processing facility. In these circumstances processing facility. In these circumstances multiphase flow and hydrates are very Important, if not dominant, issues. There are a wide variety of possible production scenarios involving hydrate forming systems. Some of the main examples of these are shown in figure 1. The Almost Empty Tool Box Why do hydrates present problems in the design and operation of the production systems described in figure 1? The simple answer is that not enough is known about them and engineers do not have the tools to design systems reliably enough to ensure that they do not form and, when they do, to deal with them without losing revenue. The tools that engineers can currently call upon to tackle the hydrate problem are designed to predict the equilibrium conditions under which predict the equilibrium conditions under which hydrates will form, and they do little else. As a result they leave the engineer little scope to ply his trade. ply his trade. This lack of information and the limited basis on which the current hydrate predictors are formulated can lead to misunderstanding about hydrate formation. For example, it is a commonly held belief that free water must first be present for a hydrate to form. This assertion is not borne out by experiment nor is it thermodynamically justified. It is, however, an implicit condition of some of the current hydrate predictors which make use of this as a device simply to improve their tractability. The effect of this can be quite serious in practice and can result in errors of judgement in the design of hydrate forming systems. There is also the danger of assuming that phase equilibrium (a fundamental assumption of almost all models) applies at the process level. For example, let us consider the use of glycol for the inhibition of hydrates in a long multiphase pipeline. The effectiveness of the inhibitor in pipeline. The effectiveness of the inhibitor in the other phases is presumed by virtue of phase equilibrium conditions at the local level. No account is taken of the effective separation of phases and the actual presence, or the lack of phases and the actual presence, or the lack of presence, of the inhibitor in these phases, yet presence, of the inhibitor in these phases, yet the predicted hydrate depression temperature is sometimes mistakenly believed to hold true for the system as a whole. A practical, if extreme, example of this is a vertical impulse line which leads from a flow line containing a wet gas with an involatile inhibitor. Unless the dead leg of the impulse line is fully protected (lagged and heat traced), hydrates are bound to form which will block or create a false signal. P. 147



High efficiency, economic, and safe exploitation of natural gas hydrate is an important researching topic. Mechanical-Thermal exploitation is new presented potential efficient method for shallow marine hydrate exploitation, and contains the following procedures: In-situ mining o: hydrate-bearing sediments, cutting the sediments into small bodies mixing the sediments with surface injected seawater, transporting the multiphase fluid with hydrate dissociation in the exploitation well, and backfilling the sediments, etc. The physical processes of small bodies of hydrate-bearing sediments and water flow accompanying hydratt dissociation are described in the main controlling parameters. Ther some trial observational tests are conducted to obtain information or the dissociation process of gas hydrate in small bodies under water. heating condition. IntroductionGas hydrate (GH) is a solid compound of hydrocarbon gas and water molecules. Gas hydrate-bearing sediments (GHBS) consist of hydrate water or/and gas, sand/clay etc. GH exists in cementing or filling status with soil skeleton, and widely distributes in the sea, permafrost and deep lakes (Kvenvolden and Lorenson, 2001; Koh, 2002; Song et al. 2014).Countries such as Russia, Canada, America and Japan have carried ou trial productions of GH in the permafrost (Makagon et al., 2005, 2013 ConocoPhillips, 2012a, b; Collett et al., 2012;) and deep marine (Fuji et al., 2013; Chee et al., 2014; Terao et al., 2015). The methods of GI-exploitation include thermal injection, depressurization, and CO2 displacement. The trial production of GH gives the confidence tha increasing temperature or/and decreasing pressure could release methane from GHBS in a short period, but the efficiencies of these productions are hard to satisfy a commercial-viable application.The physical processes in the production contain heat conduction, phase transformation, multiphase seepage and soil deformation (Moridis et al., 2009). The ratio of the characteristic times is 109:107:106:1. The heat conduction is the slowest physical effect, and controls the coupling processes. Lack lasting supply of heat into the GHBS leads to the low efficiencies of the in-situ trial production, and constrains the utilization of the methods such as depressurization and thermal injection (Hong et al., 2003; Zhang et al., 2014a).The formation and geological characteristics of GHBS in South China Sea are more complex and inhomogeneous. The reserve is large but in a scattered spatial distribution. The sediment is soft and the permeability is low. Through a preliminary estimation of thermal injection, the expansion length of hydrate dissociation zone gets to merely about 30 m after 20 years, leading to a serious situation of high investment and low profit, especially at the period of low price of international oil and natural gas (Zhang et al., 2014a, b).



 Natural gas hydrate is a potential resource to meet the ever-increasing energy demand. Yet wellbore/pipeline blockage due to hydrate regeneration poses serious safety hazards during gas hydrate production. In order to estimate and effectively manage the blockage risk, we studied the hydrate regeneration behavior in wellbore during hydrate production. A method is developed to predict where gas hydrates regenerate (i.e. the hydrate regeneration region, HRGR) in the wellbore. The HRGRs with different production methods were studied. The results indicate that hydrates regenerate in wellbore. The hydrates can deposit onto the wall of the production tubing and form a growing solid layer, which narrows the tubing and even reults in complete blockage. The simulation work indicates that there tends to be a rather large HRGR in the production tubing regardless what production methods are adopted. The blockage risk is usually much higher in the region where a higher subcooling is encountered. This region is the high blockage risk region (HBRR). For the depressurization method, the HRGR shrinks as the depressurization amplitude increases. Accordingly, the HBRR and most vulnerable site become shallower. Therefore, the blockage risk is reduced. Similar trend is found as the thermal/chemical injection methods are used. However, for thermal injection and chemical injection, there are no significant change in the HBRRs and the most vulnerable sites. Only an unnoticeable slight upward trend is found for the thermal injection cases.



Naturally occurring hydrates were discovered only 39 years ago (Makogon, 1965). Gas hydrates that contain large volumes of hydrocarbon energy accumulated in a few hundreds of meters of sediments near the earth surface. The potential volume of gas-in-place in a hydrated state is estimated to exceed 1.5x1016 m3. A single m3 of natural gas hydrate contains about 150-160 m3 of gas. About 98% of all gas hydrate deposits are found offshore in deep water in upper sedimentary layers. The most prospective regions are in the oceanic slopes. The thickness of hydrate-bearing rock may reach hundreds of meters, and in some conditions exceed 1 kilometer. Large amounts of free gas or liquid hydrocarbon can accumulate under the impermeable hydrate roof. Such coexistence of deposits can be very efficient for hydrocarbon production.There are many problems to be solved before we can produce gas from hydrate deposits. Natural gas hydrate research is currently being conducted in a number of countries, such as USA, Japan, Russia, and India. International collaboration will accelerate and increase the effectiveness of mastering these new resources of mineral energy accumulated in gas hydrate deposits. Knowledge of conditions of formation, stability and decomposition of hydrate and seawater and the mass ratios of gas and water during phase transition appears to be quite important.IntroductionNatural gas in geological sediments can exist as free gas, gas dissolved in reservoir water, or gas in the solid state. The distribution of gas among these phases is determined by thermodynamic conditions and the composition of the gas and water. Natural gas hydrates are a metastable mineral whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. The volume of gas in the sediments depends upon the geologic conditions in the regions and changes in those geologic conditions over time.The total potential resource of natural gas is over 3x1016 M3. This is further categorized as: Free gas - proved resource of natural gas - 1.56x1014 m3 (BP data, 2003).Solid hydrates - 1.5x1016 m3 (Makogon, 1984; Kvenvolden, 1988).Gas hydrates are clathrate inclusion compounds in which molecules ranging in size from 0.35 nm to 0.9 nm are hosted in a crystalline lattice formed by hydrogen-bonded water molecules. The formation, decomposition, and stable existence of hydrates depends upon the pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. Some hydrate properties have significant implications for energy production. One volume of water enclathrates 207 volumes of methane in the hydrate state, but because the specific volumes of hydrates are 26-32% larger than that of liquid water, one cubic meter of hydrate contains 164 m3 of methane at standard conditions. Hydrate formation is an exothermic process; therefore, hydrates release heat during formation and absorb heat during dissociation. Approximately 6-12 % of the energy contained within the gas hydrate is required to decompose that hydrate in natural conditions. Also, dissociation of methane hydrate to gas and water in a closed volume can generate very high pressures.



 A number of gas fields have been developed in the Middle East, Offshore Western Australia and in the Asia-Pacific region for the last five years as the demand for Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) has grown tremendously worldwide. Most of these gas field production systems consist of long subsea flowlines, which are flowing with three phase fluids gas, condensate and water. The cold temperatures of the subsea environment pose a flow assurance risk to production, especially for hydrate blockages. The only solution currently being considered to address the risk for hydrate blockages in gas fields is the usage of Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitors (KHIs), not Anti-Agglomerate Low Dose Hydrate Inhibitors (AAHIs). The most significant production concern for all producers associated with this production scenario is that the performance of the KHI is compromised in the presence of the Corrosion Inhibitor (CI). The reason for not considering the AAHIs for this application, whose performance is not compromised by the corrosion inhibitor, is the general belief that these chemistries are predominantly water soluble and therefore increase the toxicity of the produced water. The published literature to-date is focused on understanding the interactions between the KHI and the CI chemistries to solve the incompatibility issue. The lack of literature to-date showcasing the success of such an understanding warrants a solution with a different perspective. Data is available for new generation chemistries currently being used in the industry that show greater than 99% oil solubility and would hence overcome the toxicity concern that was valid for the first generation AAHI chemistry. This new generation chemistry was tested by Heriot-Watt University in the United Kingdom (UK) that shows the product effectiveness up to 90% water cut at a reasonable subcooling, applicable for these subsea flowlines in discussion. The performance at these high water cuts will make this new generation chemistry more applicable for these subsea flowlines without the risk of hydrate blockages. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusions that are similar to ice in appearance but differ in structure. Under certain conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of a hydrate-former inside a hydrogen bonded solid lattice. Hydrate-formers include nitrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, methane, ethane, propane and butane and are the main components of natural gas (Makogon 1998; Sloan 1998). Gas hydrates are not stable at ambient temperature and pressure. Hydrate agglomerationss can be even formed with low concentrations of water. To protect a system against gas hydrate formation, the right chemical at the right dose rate needs to be injected into the system. Currently there are two mechanisms of low-dose hydrate inhibition available as an alternative to Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THIs); Anti-Agglomerate Hydrate Inhibitors (AAHIs) and KHIs. The AAHIs and KHIs are normally classified as Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHIs).



 The conditions for initial hydrate formation in systems containing carbon dioxide, propane and water were obtained over a wide concentration range for the hydrate-water-rich liquid-gas phase region. The locus of the four-phase equilibrium consisting of hydrate, water-rich liquid, gas and propane - carbon dioxide - rich liquid was determined. The maximum temperature at which hydrates would form in the three-component system was found to be 57.7 °F, compared to 50_3 DF for pure carbon dioxide and 42.3 °F for pure propane. An analysis of the data in terms of the solid-vapour K-factor concept indicated that the If-factors reported for propa.ne do not apply in systems containing carbon dioxide.INTRODUCTIONA GAS HYDRATE is an inclusion compound in which water and at least one other component are associated through the enclosure of the hydrate-forming molecules in a crystalline lattice-like structure formed by the water molecules. The process of hydrate formation may be represented by:(Equation Available In Full Paper)where a hydrate-forming gas, R, combines with n molecules of water to form the solid crystalline hydrate. The forces stabilizing the structure are physical in nature, and the value of n may theoretically vary from 5.75 to over 17.0, depending on the hydrate-forming molecule and the structure of hydrate formed (1).Many of the organic and inorganic gases form stable hydrates. These include, for example, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulphide, methane, ethane, propane and nitrogen, all of which are commonly found in naturally occurring gas reservoirs. For this reason, information on the hydrate-forming conditions of these gases and their mixtures is of importance to the natural gas handling and processing industries. Although extensive experimental work has been reported in the literature on hydrate formation for the pure components, far less information is available on mixtures. Some of the systems for which information is available include methane - hydrogen sulphide(2), methane - carbon dioxide(3). methane-nitrogen(4), methane-propane(5) and propane hydrogen sulphide(6). Initial hydrate formation in several natural gas mixtures is reported by Deaton and Frost(7,8).As an extension of the work reported above, it was decided to study initial hydrate formation in a system containing carbon dioxide and propane. Both of these components are commonly found in natural gas; furthermore, the system is of interest from a phase behaviour point of view, because pure carbon dioxide and pure propane form hydrates in different crystal structures.Hydrate Structure And Phase BehaviourThe crystal structures in which hydrates are formed have been classified as Structure I and Structure II by Claussen(9) and von Stackelberg(10,11) and the theory pertaining to this is extensively reviewed by van derWaals and Platteeuw12. In this classification, carbon dioxide, a smaller molecule, forms in Structure I and propane, a somewhat larger molecule, forms in Structure II. The ternary system containing water, propane and carbon-dioxide exhibits two four-phase equilibrium consisting in one case of hydrate II (Hir), water-rich liquid (L1), gas (G) and propane - carbon dioxide - rich liquid (L2) and, in the other case, of hydrate I (Hr), water-rich liquid (L1), gas (G) and propane - carbon dioxide - rich liquid (L2).



 The evidence for the existence of permafrost and in-situ hydrates under the Beaufort Sea shelf are reviewed and the associated implications for hydrocarbon development are briefly discussed.



 Due to availability, as well as economical and environmental considerations, natural gas is projected to be the premium fuel of the 21st century. Natural gas production poses risk of flow-line hydrate blockage from co-produced water and hydrateforming species. Common industry practice is the use of large doses of thermodynamic inhibitors such as alcohols; aside from undesirable environmental consequences, sufficient quantities of such thermodynamic inhibitors induces salt precipitation from co-produced water. Thermodynamic inhibitors affect bulk phase properties and inhibit hydrate formation. An alternative is changing interface properties by polymers and surfactants, effective at 3 to 0.5 % (or less) by weight of coproduced water. One group of low dosage hydrate inhibitors (LDHI) are kinetic inhibitors, which affect nucleation rate and growth. A second group of LDHI are anti-agglomerants, which prevent agglomeration of small hydrate crystallites. Despite great potential, work on hydrate anti-agglomeration is very limited. This work centers on the effect of NaCl and MgCl2 in mixtures of two vastly different anti-agglomerants. We use a model oil, water, and tetrahydrofuran as a hydrate-forming species. Results show that both salts—added in sufficient quantities—may result in the agglomeration of hydrates. Our results reveal a non-monotonic agglomeration behavior at low salt and/or large surfactant concentrations. Specifically, dissolved MgCl2 results in agglomeration more than the dissolved NaCl. Our measurements also show that the quaternary ammonium salt—i.e., quat—is more sensitive to dissolved salt than the nonionic rhamnolipid biosurfactant. In this work we show that the rhamnolipid biosurfactant is effective to a low concentration of 0.05 wt. % , yet quat has effectiveness down to 0.01 wt. %. The biosurfactant—with less toxicity and higher biodegradability—is an attractive alternative to chemical surfactants in anti-agglomeration. Results on the model systems show the promise for testing in real fluid systems and the field testing of the ideas. Introduction Due to potential supply from various subsurface formations and clean-burning characteristics, natural gas may provide a larger share of primary energy and surpass oil consumption in the twenty-first century. There is less CO2 produced from burning natural gas than other fossil fuels. Furthermore, produced CO2 can be separated from the combustion products and sequestered more readily than oil combustion products for improved oil recovery or storage in saline aquifers. However, thermodynamic conditions existing in gas production lines often favor formation of crystalline inclusion compounds known as gas hydrates. Water, co-produced with natural gas, forms lattice structures by hydrogen bonding; the structures are stabilized by guest molecules such as methane, propane, etc., under high pressures and temperatures in the range of a few degrees to 25 ºC(Sloan, 1998). Formation of gas hydrates occurs rapidly—unlike corrosion, scale, or wax buildup. This rapidity has undesirable safety and environmental consequences. Hydrate plug formation may lead to production shutdowns and even explosions due to large amounts of methane often contained within such plugs. Traditional hydrate prevention methods include physical means, such as insulation and electrical heating. Change of bulk phase properties through thermodynamic inhibition with methanol (MeOH) and monoethylene glycol (MEG) is widely used. Thermodynamic inhibitors shift equilibrium conditions to lower temperature and higher pressure(Dholabhai et al., 1997). Although well-characterized, these inhibitors often require large concentrations—as high as 60 weight % of co-produced water—which increase costs and have serious environmental impacts(Anderson and Prausnitz, 1986). An additional problem is that large concentrations of such inhibitors induce precipitation of salts when present in co-produced water(Masoudi et al., 2006). Such precipitation could lead to additional flow assurance problems.



Permission to copy is restricted to an abstract of not more than 300 words. Permission to copy is restricted to an abstract of not more than 300 words. Illustrations may not be copied. The abstract should contain conspicuous acknowledgement of where and by whom the paper was presented. Publication elsewhere is usually granted upon request provided proper credit is made. Introduction Deepwater developments such as the one depicted in Fig 1 rely on production flowlines to carry raw, production flowlines to carry raw, unprocessed reservoir fluid, called full wellstream (FWS) production, from wells to production facilities. As the search for reserves has taken the petroleum industry into deeper water and colder environments, the feasibility of producing FWS lay become questionable due to the possibility of hydrates in the flowlines. possibility of hydrates in the flowlines. The lower capital investment of FWS production flowlines is also attractive production flowlines is also attractive in shallower water. Even here, the risk of hydrates raises questions of feasibility in shallow, cold water environments. When hydrates form in production streams, they can pose problems with economic consequences. Field experience indicates that hydrates occasionally obstruct production flowpaths (Ref 1 and 2). In the event of a partial obstruction, hydrate formation is a nuisance, slowing the production stream until the obstruction can be removed. And, in the event of a complete obstruction, full stoppage of production can last for weeks while production can last for weeks while mobilizing equipment to remove the obstruction. The cost of the mobilization on top of the lost revenue from the interruption in production can have serious economic production can have serious economic repercussions. Figure 2 is a hydrate formation curve for a crude oil reservoir fluid with a gas-oil-ration (GOR) of 1000 SCF/STB (177 SCM/STCM). Note that increasing pressure or decreasing temperature favours hydrate formation. The worst exposure to hydrate formation usually is associated with a prolonged interruption in prolonged interruption in production, when the pressure rises production, when the pressure rises to shut-in wellhead pressure (SIWHP) and the contents of the flowline cool to seabed temperature. While hydrate formation will be more likely in deep water, even at typical seabed temperatures in the North Sea (40-45 degrees F or 4-7 degrees C), hydrate formation is possible. 2 HYDRATE MITIGATION STUDY A study was conducted to identify methods of supporting FWS production in a hydrate forming environment. The study was set in the context of the system depicted in Fig 1 to exploit an oil field yielding a crude with a GOR of 1000 SCF/STB (177 SCM/STCM). The water depth at the field location was 2000 ft (610m). The temperature on the seabed was 38 degrees F (3.3 degrees C). The search for hydrate mitigating techniques was confined to existing technology. Only those alternatives which were both feasible and cost effective were carried through the study. Feasibility and cost effectiveness were weighed for the whole path from the wells through the production facilities. The field development plan specified water injection to maintain reservoir pressure. Since gas sales had been pressure. Since gas sales had been ruled out, produced gas would be reinjected into the reservoir. A portion of the wells at the multiwell portion of the wells at the multiwell subsea templates were designated as water injection wells and gas injection wells. The single satellite wells were production wells. All satellite wells and template wells were completed for through-flowline (TFL) maintenance. The single satellite wells required a pair of 3-1/2-inch (90mm) TFL pair of 3-1/2-inch (90mm) TFL flowlines which doubled as FWS production flowlines. Each template production flowlines. Each template required a total of five lines to connect it with the riser based manifold:



This paper will review the design considerations for gas hydrate prevention in deepwater well completions. The influence of seafloor temperature, wellbore pressure, water production rate and composition of gas on hydrate inhibition system design will be discussed. The impact of various inhibitors will be discussed in relationship to the design of the system and potential handling problems. Examples will review design considerations for sizing of subsea inhibitor lines, selection of injection depth below the seafloor and hardware requirements. Case histories of inhibitor injection systems used in deepwater completions and during testing of deepwater exploration wells will be reviewed. The benefits of insulated tubing to enhance inhibition design will be discussed. Also, a method will be introduced that can be used to estimate the maximum inhibitor injection rate to avoid salt precipitation from completion fluid or produced water.IntroductionAs drilling and production operations expand into deepwater environments, operators need to consider the potential risk of gas hydrate formation in wellbores, subsea pipelines and subsea equipment during both drilling and production operations. Gas hydrates are ice-like solids that form from gas and water under combinations of high pressure and moderately low temperatures. The ice-like structure occurs when the water molecules form cage-like structures around the guest gas molecules. In deepwater wellbores and pipelines, gas hydrates can potentially form and plug flow passages. Figure 1 illustrates where hydrates can form in a deepwater well.There has been extensive research on gas hydrate formation during the drilling phase of deepwater wells. This paper, however, reviews the subject of gas hydrate formation in deepwater production and testing operations.The risk of forming hydrates is greatest when the well is cold. This condition usually occurs during production start-up or while the well is shut-down following a period of flow. Hydrates can also form while the well is flowing if the well temperature and pressure present the right conditions.There are several consequences of forming a hydrate plug:1. Well flow rate can be reduced significantly or production could completely stop.2. Plugs can make it difficult to run wireline tools down the tubing string.3. Hydrate plugs can make it difficult to open or close downhole valves to control the flow of produced fluids into the tubing or from the annulus.There are several possible solutions to mitigate the risk of hydrate plugging in deepwater production tests or deepwater completions: (1) a hydrate inhibitor can be injected into the wellbore; (2) the tubing can be insulated; (3) the wellbore can be heated. The most common solutions are to use inhibitors or insulation.



Laboratory and field results have confirmed the advantages of kinetic gas hydrate inhibitors compared to classical thermodynamic inhibition methods. Kinetic inhibitors being used currently are high molecular weight water soluble polymers and they require a polar carrier solvent. In situations where the solvent is allowed to evaporate, i.e. hot spots in a gas pipeline, the solid polymer will plate out of the solution and may cause problems. This paper describes new low molecular weight kinetic gas hydrate inhibitors. These newly developed products, being liquid, will not plate out of solutions, can be used either in a polar solvent or a hydrocarbon carrier. Simulated hydrates laboratory testing has been done on a tetrahydrofuran/salt water system in a simple and unique testing loop. Comparable laboratory results were obtained for experimental and established kinetics gas hydrate inhibitors. Positive laboratory results were followed with successful field testing. Laboratory and field results indicate the experimental inhibitors have potential commercial applications in gas hydrate prevention technology.IntroductionGas hydrates form when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. The water/guest cocrystallization process has been recognized for several years, is well characterized and occurs with sufficient combinations of temperature and pressure. Significant amounts of natural gas are deposited in the form of hydrates and are considered as future energy sources.Light hydrocarbons, methane-to-heptanes, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide are the guest molecules of interest to the natural gas industry. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, gas hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 80 F. Long gas transmission lines are particularly vulnerable to being blocked with hydrates during extended cold weather conditions. Underwater pipelines and equipment may be exposed to hydrate forming conditions all the time. Extensive studies on gas hydrates were conducted by B. Dendy Sloan Jr. and coworkers at the Colorado School of Mines (CSM). These studies sponsored by several oil and gas companies included both the theoretical and practical aspects of hydrates and methods of hydrates inhibition. Gas hydrates are being studied worldwide at several research laboratories.There are few methods of preventing gas hydrates formation. The obvious ones like removing the water component, heating the system above the temperature of hydrate formation and lowering the pressure, are often not practical. Another method, the addition of large amounts of ethylene glycol or methanol, decreases the hydrate stability and effectively lowers the temperature of hydrate formation. The above mentioned methods are called thermodynamic inhibition because they destabilize water/gas clathrates by changing the composition or conditions. Thermodynamic inhibition with chemicals requires relatively large amounts of methanol and/or glycol; hence it is quite expensive.Kinetic methods of gas hydrates prevention have been developed by CSM and other laboratories. Kinetic inhibitors prevent a growth of hydrate nuclei to form larger crystals. Kinetic inhibitors are usually water-soluble copolymers. They are effective at concentrations typically ten to one hundred times less than the effective concentrations of ethylene glycol or methanol. With thermodynamic inhibitors increasing in price, the kinetic ones are becoming economically favorable. Known kinetic inhibitors like poly(N-vinylpyrrolidone (PVP), poly(N-vinylpyrrolidone/N-vinylcaprolactam/N,N-dimethylaminoethylmethacrylate (VC-713), poly(N-vinylcaprolactam) (PVCap) or poly(N-vinylpyrrolidone/Nvinylcaprolactam) (VP/VC) inhibit gas hydrates formation by coating and commingling with hydrate crystals nuclei, thereby interfering with agglomeration of small particles into large ones which would result in plugging the gas pipeline and equipment.P. 693^



The modelling work described here aims at establishing a chain of methods and models to describe flow of hydrate slurries in hydrocarbon transport lines. The chain starts with the rheological characterisation of hydrate slurries. The next level is a cross sectional model using this rheology to describe pipe behaviour of slurries. Finally a pipeline dynamic model describing the interaction of flow, terrain and boundary conditions at the reservoir and receiving plant.From the modelling and experiments it appears that the slurry has a much greater influence on rheology than indicated by standard correlations using average particle concentration. Also an increase in apparent wall roughness is predicted similar to what is observed in loop experiments. Both these effects are due to the skewed particle and velocity distributions predicted by the cross sectional model.



This paper discusses the more significant advances in hydrate control technology in the past twenty years. It also presents a comparison of four of the more widely used methods for predicting the water content of natural gas hydrates and comments on their limitations.Some development is reported on the problem of controlling and preventing hydrate formation in offshore wells and onshore Arctic completions. Control techniques commonly used in these areas comprise variations on long-established practices such as application of heat, lowering system pressure, at least a partial dehydration of gas and/or liquid phases, addition of inhibitors, and purposeful formation of gas hydrates followed by their entrapment, decomposition and discharge of the water phase (known to many as the LTX system).HISTORICAL BACKGROUND:Although Sir Humphrey Davy first reported on hydrates of organic compounds in 1810, it was not until 1934 that Elmer G. Hammerschmidt1 described natural gas hydrates and their formation in natural gas transmission systems. A growing awareness of this problem led to extensive research or. several facets of gas hydrate formation by W.M. Deaton and E.M. Frost, Jr. of the USBM prior to World War II. These studies, though nearly complete, were interrupted by wartime activities and the results were not published until 1946 as USBM MONOGRAPH 8.2These and other investigations established the nature of hydrate formation in multi component mixtures of hydrocarbons and water and the effect of other gases such as H2, CO2, N2 and H2S on hydrate formation by hydrocarbon gases. Methods were developed to calculate the equilibrium conditions of hydrate formation, or in essence to predict the conditions under which hydrate formation is likely to occur in any of several pure and multicomponent hydrocarbon gas systems. Hydrate forming conditions for a number of binary systems containing water and hydrocarbons or CO2 and H2S are shown by the equilibrium curves of Figure 1. Generally, each component has a critical temperature above which no hydrate of this compound is formed. This temperature corresponds to the point of intersection of the equilibrium hydrate-formation curve of the hydrate forming compound. The figure shows H2S with the highest critical temperature. Therefore, natural gas systems containing H2S form hydrates more readily than do gases of the same density without H2S.By 1955, present-day technology had been developed and was in use by the petroleum industry. Several tenets were well-established, such as: Essential Conditions for Gas Hydrate Formation1. Favorable conditions of pressure and temperature of the gas.2. Presence of a liquid water phase.3. Thorough agitation between the phases. Methods for Preventing Gas Hydrate Formation1. Heating gas above hydrate formation temperature.2. Lowering gas pressure on the system.3. Dehydrate the gas to a level where no condensation occurs.4. Use of inhibitors to depress hydrate formation temperature.5. Use of the low-temperature separation process (LTX) which purposely forms hydrates by Joule-Thomson (J-T) expansion, separates them from the cold gas, moves them to a warm zone, and there hydrates are decomposed into hydrocarbons and water. The latter is discharged from the system. Inhibitor Choices1. Methanol2. Ethylene Glycol 3. Diethylene Glycol4. Others, including triethylene glycol, amonia, calcium, chloride brine, oil field brines, heavier alcohols, and aqueous sugar solutions.



This paper will present details of DeepStar funded project CTR11203 related to hydrate deposition mechanisms. As the oil and gas industry moves towards offshore developments in deeper waters, the risk management of plugging pipelines due to hydrate formation increases in difficulty, which may lead to operation/safety hazards. To tackle this challenge, the flow assurance community requires prediction tools to account for hydrate formation in flowlines. Although significant knowledge has been gained from a mechanistic model for hydrate plug formation, there are still components missing for a full comprehensive model such as hydrate deposition on pipeline walls. Currently, field and flowloop data suggest the need to include and quantify hydrate deposition in the hydrate formation model. Agglomeration of hydrate particles by itself cannot account for large pressure drop observed during hydrate formation. Because hydrate deposition is difficult to decouple from other hydrate related phenomena (e.g., agglomeration), little to no research has previously been done addressing this phenomenon, particularly in gas-liquid systems. In this work we present results that provide insight into hydrate deposition mechanisms based on experimental investigations designed to isolate this phenomenon from other hydrate issues. We have identified that water (hydrate former) reaches the deposition surface by diffusion through the hydrocarbon medium, by direct contact of water with the surface, by condensation of water on the cold surface and finally by liquid capillarity. Once the water reaches the deposition surface it forms hydrate deposits. Moreover, we have identified two mechanisms for hydrate deposition, film growth consisting of a hydrate layer growing from a wetted surface and hydrate particle cohesion/adhesion, which occurs when hydrate particles in the liquid bulk adhere to the deposition surface. We have also found that the rate of hydrate deposition increases by decreasing the surface temperature and these results are repeatable. We have shown that hydrate deposition on pipe walls is a key component for hydrate plug formation. The understanding gained with this investigation contributes to the efforts of the flow assurance community to develop a comprehensive hydrate formation model that could account for all the risks pertinent to hydrate formation.



Gas hydrate plugging is considered a very challenging issue in offshore petroleum production and transportation. The phenomenon of hydrate plug formation involves low temperature and high pressure condition. Hydrates can damage equipment of petroleum transport system. In this study, a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model is proposed to analyze the effect of hydrate flow in pipelines using ANSYS FLUENT multiphase flow modeling techniques. This study has been carried out with a joint industrial collaboration with GRi simulations, Canada. Two case studies have been investigated. The first one is with a pipeline with a dimension specified by an existing literature (Balakin et al., 2010a) for validating the simulation results. The other one is with a more complex geometry of M-shaped jumper including six elbows. Eulerian-Eulerian method was used to model the multiphase hydrate flow. Moreover, the population balance method (PBM) was used to model the hydrate agglomeration and breaking up mechanism. A parametric study of stress analysis due to the flow-induced vibration on pipelines was also investigated. This study helps to identify the regions where the maximum stress and deformation due to various flow conditions. The overall objective is to integrate the ANSYS FLUENT model with GRi simulation's IDEA-FDK platform. Petroleum industry can effectively use the proposed tool to prevent the risky operating conditions in offshore structures. The results from the analysis will help to identify the cause of the pipeline failure, regions of the maximum stress occurred in the pipeline and the plastic deformation of the pipeline due to hydrate flow in pipeline.



Unsolicited. This document was submitted to SPE (or its predecessor organization) for consideration for publication in one of its technical journals. While not published, this paper has been included in the eLibrary with the permission of and transfer of copyright from the author.Multiphase pipeline transport of unprocessed well streams is regarded as an area with considerable economic potential.The complex properties of the fluids in combination with cool abient conditions calls for more research to be performed. This will widen the technological basis for such projects.In this context Statoil, on behalf of the POSEIDON project, has initiated a research program on the dynamic behaviour of hydrates formed in multi phase flow systems.A large variety of hydrate products were encountered. These ranged from solid hydrates plugging the pipe, to finely dispersed hydrate particles with no tendency to coagulate or deposit. The hydrates formed were classified according to the expected operational trouble potential of each product.The effect of velocity was studied. The tendency to plug the pipeline was found to be dependent upon flow velocity.Different additives for modification of hydrate properties were also studied.1. IntroductionTo develop the concept of multiphase transportation of oil and gas into an established technology, several aspects regarding fluid properties requires close attention.Hydrates in gas pipe lines, has for a long time, been recognized as a source of problems. Numerous studies have been performed to measure the conditions around hydrate formation and to develop models. Most of the studies were performed in static two-phase systems.The behaviour of hydrates in multiphase transportation systems is however, unknown. A research program has therefore been initiated by Statoil to gain knowledge about hydrate behaviour in multiphase transportation system.



McLeod, Wilfred R., Marathon Oil Company This paper discusses the more significant advances in hydrate control technology in the past twenty years. It also examines the applicability of these control techniques to the current development of gas reserves, particularly in remote areas. No longer does the old adage, "Move closer to the wellhead!" apply when that haven is submerged in several hundred feet of cold water or located in the high Artic regions and hydrates are to be found in the flow string beneath the wellhead. Control techniques commonly used in these areas comprise variations on long-established practices such as application of heat, lowering practices such as application of heat, lowering system pressure, at least a partial dehydration of gas and/or liquid phases, addition of inhibitors, any purposeful formation of gas hydrates followed by their entrapment, decomposition and discharge of the water phase (known to many as the LTX system). HISTORICAL BACKGROUND: Although Sir Humphrey Davy first reported on hydrates of organic compounds in 1810, it was not until 1934 that Elmer G. Hammerschmidt described natural gas hydrates and their formation in natural gas transmission systems. A growing awareness of this problem led to extensive research on several facets of gas hydrate formation by W. M. Deaton and E. M. Frost Jr. of the USBM prior to World War II. These studies, though nearly complete, were interrupted by wartime activities and the results were not published until 1946 as USBM MONOGRAPH 8. These and other investigations established the nature of hydrate formation in multicomponent mixtures of hydrocarbons and water and the effect of other gases such as H2, CO2, N2 and H2S on hydrate formation by hydrocarbon gases. Methods were developed to calculate the equilibrium conditions of hydrate formation, or in essence to predict the conditions under which hydrate formation predict the conditions under which hydrate formation is likely to occur in any of several pure and multicomponent hydrocarbon gas systems. Hydrate forming conditions for a number of brinary systems containing water and hydrocarbons or CO2 and H2S are shown by the equilibrium curves of Figure 1. Generally, each component has a critical temperature above which no hydrate of this compound is formed. This temperature corresponds to the point of intersection of the equilibrium hydrate-formation curve of the hydrate forming compound. The figure shows H2S with the highest critical temperature. Therefore, natural gas systems containing H2S form hydrates more readily than do gases of the same density without H2S. By 1955, present-day technology had been developed and was in use by the petroleum industry. Several tenets were well-established, such as: A. Essential Conditions for Gas Hydrate Formation 1. Favorable conditions of pressure and temperature of the gas. 2. Presence of a liquid water phase. 3. Thorough agitation between the phases. B. Methods for Preventing Gas Hydrate Formation 1. Heating gas above hydrate formation temperature. 2. Lowering gas pressure on the system. 3. Dehydrate the gas to a level where no condensation occurs. 4. Use of inhibitors to depress hydrate formation temperature. 5. Use of the low-temperature separation process (LTX) which purposely forms hydrates by Joule-Thomson (J-T) expansion separates them from the cold gas, moves them to a warm zone, and there hydrocarbons and water. The latter is discharged from the system. C. Inhibitor Choices 1. Methanol 2. Ethylene Glycol 3. Diethylene Glycol



Two low dosage gas hydrate inhibitors, antiagglomerant type and a combination antiagglomerant/kinetic polymeric inhibitor have been successfully field tested in a gas producing well. The well located in Canadian foothills posed challenges for the operators. High pressure, low bottomhole temperature and Joule-Thomson gas decompression cooling effect created favorable conditions for gas hydrates at depths below 300 meters. The well would plug-up with hydrates daily in spite of being treated with 400-500 L of methanol. The operator experienced significant monetary losses due to lost production and had to use considerable amounts of chemicals and time to clean-up hydrates from plugged tubings.The inhibitors were applied downhole in 20% to 10% methanol solution. This novel approach allowed utilization of existing solvent storage and pumping equipment so that no capital spending was required when converting the hydrate prevention program from methanol to LDHI treatment.The combination inhibitor was diluted to 20% in methanol in a stock tank and pumped into the well at the approximate rate 30 L/day. Similarly, the antiagglomerant was initially used at 20% solution in methanol and later its concentration was lowered to 10%. The daily inhibitor treatment rate was established at 45 L.Laboratory results indicate the combination product is a better hydrate inhibitor than the antiagglomerant. However, the cost analysis favors the usage of less expensive antiagglomerant in this application.Following the successful treatment of one well, several more similar gas wells throughout the field were identified and converted from methanol hydrate prevention method to antiagglomerant treatment.IntroductionGas hydrates form when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. The water/guest crystallization process has been recognized for several years, is well characterized and occurs with sufficient combinations of temperature and pressure.1 Light hydrocarbons, methane-to-heptanes, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide are the guest molecules of interest to the natural gas industry. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, gas hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 80°F (~30°C). Gas transmission lines and gas wells are particularly vulnerable to being blocked with hydrates.Formation of gas hydrates can be eliminated or hindered by several methods. The thermodynamic prevention methods control or eliminate elements necessary for hydrate formation: the presence of hydrate forming guest molecules, the presence of water, high pressure and low temperature. The elimination of any one of these four factors from a system would preclude the formation of hydrates. Unfortunately, elimination of these hydrate elements is often impractical or even impossible. This is especially true in gas production wells where one has no control over the composition of produced fluids and bottomhole pressure and temperature. The well operator has only limited control over the wellhead pressure. The formation temperature and Joule-Thomson gas cooling effect upon decompression are the factors determining whether the particular well or any part of it is at hydrates conditions. Further downstream, the gas is normally processed to make the stream more resistant to hydrate build-up. The gas conditioning includes sweetening, dehydration and pressure control in transmission lines.There are reported solutions to hydrates problems in production wells. For example Hale, et al.2 patented a method of preventing hydrates formation in such wells with addition of polycyclicpolyether polyols. However, the most prevailing practical approach of preventing gas hydrates formation is the addition of massive amounts of alcohols, glycols or salts to the gas/water stream. These chemicals being thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors shift the operating conditions outside of the hydrate formation region. These additives shift the hydrate equilibrium curve toward higher pressure and lower temperature conditions. They destabilize hydrates and effectively lower the temperature of hydrate formation.



Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature and composition of the gas and water.Gas hydrates are widespread in nature; they exist in sedimentary rocks on land in sub-Arctic regions and in the cold sediments of the ocean at depths of 200 m or more. Potential gas resources concentrated on earth in the hydrate state exceed 1.5 × 1 0 16m3. Although gas hydrates can be a tremendous energy source, they can also be an expensive problem during the drilling and operation of deep wells and during the operation of oil and gas pipelines. Analysis of research results indicates that the properties of hydrate and hydrate saturated sediments remains one of the most important and least studies parts of the hydrate problem. The properties of natural gas hydrates depend on the conditions of formation, dynamics of pressure, temperature in the sediments in geological time, migration of gas-saturated water, structure and hydrate saturation of sediments, position of hydrate-saturated stratum in the hydrate formation zone, supercooling d hydrates, and many other factors.Recent research results of the authors into the properties of hydrates are discussed with particular reference to the factors mentioned above.IntroductionDeep drilling and operation of oil and gas wells, and operation of oil and gas pipelines in the deep sea are vastly complicated by the presence of natural gas hydrates.Gas hydrate is a metastable mineral. Its formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature, and composition of the gas and water.Gas hydrates are inclusion compounds, solid solutions, in which water is the solvent. Molecules of water tied together by hydrogen bonds form a space-filling lattice. Mobile molecules of gasses are absorbed or incorporated in the cavities of the water lattice.Gas hydrates are widespread in nature A in sedimentary rock on land in the sub-Arctic regions and in the cold bottom rock of the ocean at depths of 200-500 m or more. Potential gas resources concentrated on earth in the hydrate state exceed 15x1015m3 . Explored reserves of methane in the hydrate state are over 700 trillion m3. Several countries have started research aimed at the discovery and production of gas from offshore gas hydrate deposits. For example, Japan discovered 12 gas hydrate deposits around the Japan islands with total reserves of methane estimated at 6 trillion m3. A program of testing production of gas from the hydrate deposits will start in 1999 (Okuda, 1996). Similar programs have started in India, where potential resources in the Bay of Bengal can be over 60 trillion m3, and in the Ukraine (Black Sea opposite the Crimea) where potential resources are over 25 trillion m3. The amount throughout the entire Black Sea bottom is about 75-100 trillion m3 (Smirnov, 1996).On one hand, gas hydrate represents a tremendous amount of mineral energy, but on the other hand, a large expensive problem.



Natural gas hydrate (NGH) technology is an attractive alternative to capture associated gas on FPSO's to solve the stranded and marginal gas problem in the oil industry. Based on estimates for land-based plants, the capital cost of hydrate technology is considerably lower than LNG, methanol and syncrude technologies. Offshore-based hydrate plants are also expected to be lower in costs. Crude/hydrate slurry processes are being developed for use on FPSO's. NGH technology is safe, environmentally friendly and easily scaleable.P. 247



 Deepwater gas field development and/or gas fields’ production in remote locations requires long tiebacks with low temperature and high pressure flow paths and complex seabed topographies. Hydrate formation and plugging is one of the most probable Flow Assurance risks under those conditions, and there is an urgent need for a better knowledge of these gas dominant systems behaviour regarding hydrate plug formation as well as effects of additives (Thermodynamic, Kinetic Hydrate Inhibition (KHI) and Anti-Agglomerant (AA)). Indeed, during the design phase of new field development, oil companies have to choose a hydrate mitigation strategy. To do that, important questions rapidly arise: What about the gas layer protection? How can non-volatile additives act/protect the non-wetted top of the line from condensed water hydrate formation in stratified flow? Is there a need to take/run some specific procedures (such as slug of additives) to avoid hydrate problems? The Additive and Hydrate at the Top of Line (AHToL) JIP phase 1 project's objective was to acquire knowledge and data in multiphase Lyre pilot loop in such gas dominant conditions. The paper presents Lyre loop pilot tests performed with gas dominant systems without additive. The hydrate formation was performed in multiphase flow. The pilot and tests results in stratified flow are shown. Two types of fluids compositions were tested: Gas/Water and Gas/Condensate/Water. The water to hydrate conversion rates are calculated. Photos of hydrate deposits inside the flow loop are shown. The plugging mechanisms identified show a direct correlation with the fluids compositions circulating



 Quantitative prediction of gas hydrate formation risk is critical for the successful implementation of risk-based approaches to hydrate management in subsea production. Here we use a high pressure, stirred, automated lag-time apparatus and a high pressure acoustic levitator to experimentally obtain smooth probability distributions describing stochastic hydrate formation. Robust, repeatable hydrate nucleation and growth rate probability distributions as a function of induction time and subcooling are measured for various gases, shear rates and inhibitor dosages in systems with interfacial areas ranging from (0.1 to 60) cm2. The results reveal that new engineering models can be used to reliably predict hydrate formation probability. Importantly these new models have solid theoretical foundations which enables them to be generalized with confidence to industrial systems.



This paper presents some results obtained in a Research project managed by IFP (Institut Français du Pétrole) and IFE (Institute for Energy Technology), where the objective is to study the transport of hydrates in production lines.A number of research projects are devoted to the study of thermodynamic equilibrium in the presence of hydrates, and the kinetics of hydrate formation, in order to develop prevention tools like hydrates inhibitors, insulation.... But with the development of deep water and ultra deep water production schemes where these technologies become expensive and some times limited, a fair prediction of hydrate formation and transport conditions becomes necessary for anticipating the design of the production facilities and could help the production engineers to make the appropriate decisions. In the literature, however little efforts have been directed towards the hydrodynamic modeling of hydrate transport. This project aims at the study of hydrate slurries in flowing conditions and particularly in multiphase flow lines.Experimental data in flow loop are presented. Comparisons have been made with flow models. In presence of hydrate crystals, the production fluid resembles a slurry with effective transport properties. This study indicates that the presence of particles in the flow tends to increase the wall drag and, consequently, influences the production capacity of the line. Moreover the settling trends of these solid particles can complicate the problem. Discussions about these issues have been done.IntroductionDeep water and ultra deep-water production developments must face hydrates issues. Indeed, the thermodynamic conditions of existence of hydrate particles in a flow line are low temperature and large pressure (for example 40 bars and 4°C for methane hydrates). These conditions of temperature and pressure become common in deep offshore flowlines.One conventional approach to the hydrate problem is using thermodynamic inhibitors like methanol or glycol. This involves adding a lot of extra liquid to the well flow. Besides implying a logistics problem in supplying large amounts of liquids to an offshore site, the extra liquid increases the gravitational pressure drop due to the weight added by the inhibitor which may reduce the production capacity of the line. The problem is aggravated by the large elevation differences involved in deep offshore fields. Further, with the low temperatures and high pressure often involved, the amount of added thermodynamic inhibitor may be excessive.By using a Low Dosage Additive (LDA) we are not only reducing the amount of added liquid, we are also dispersing the water into the oil and thereby reducing oil/water slip and thereby the water accumulation that may further increase the gravitational pressure drop. These gains must be balanced against any modification of the flow caused by the presence of hydrate crystals, such as increase in flow friction, increase in viscosity/consistency of the hydrate-in-oil slurry.In this study, dispersions of hydrates were formed in a large flow loop and flow characteristics were analyzed.



New, cost-effective, and environmentally acceptable hydrate inhibitors that allow multiphase fluids to be transported untreated over long distances have been under increasing investigation by the oil and gas industry.Replacing traditional hydrate inhibitors such as methanol and glycols with a new generation of hydrate inhibitors can lead to very substantial cost savings, not only for the reduced cost of the new inhibitor but also in the transportation costs and the size of the injection, pumping and storage facilities. Thus it is possible to redesign production facilities on a smaller scale. Such a change-over in hydrate inhibitor technology may also be an environmental requirement in the near future.We will present an overview of patent and other literature on new hydrate inhibitors, including specific chemicals that have been investigated. Our own results on some of these published chemicals will be given and their applicability compared. We will also present data on new inhibitors developed at RF, as well as improved methods of evaluating their activity. A discussion of the relative merits of the two main types of new hydrate inhibitor, "kinetic inhibitors" and "antiagglomerators", will be given.IntroductionThe cost of preventing hydrate formation either by pipeline insulation or by using thermodynamic inhibitors (THIs) such as methanol can be an important economic factor to consider when developing small to medium fields.Kinetic inhibitors (KIs) have been proposed as an alternative chemical treatment to THIs. However, the main drawback with KIs is their limited activity. The best KIs published to date appear only to have applications down to ca. 7-8 C subcoolings into the hydrate region if one is considering multiphase transportation over a reasonable distance. This subcooling effect is equivalent to using ca. 15-18 wt.% methanol. However, the KIs discovered to date are far from structurally optimised, and there are probably other classes of KI that remain to be discovered that are effective at higher degrees of subcooling. Hence, research on KIs is justified on this basis. Even so, improvements to be made in KI activity may still not good enough for some applications at extremely low temperatures or high pipeline pressures. Therefore, as the oil industry needs to control hydrate formation at very high subcoolings, a third method of chemical treatment is being developed. These types of chemicals are called Anti-Agglomerators (AAs).Besides chemical treatment and the use of pipeline insulation, other hydrate control methods include using a jacket of hot water injected from the platform side, and using electric heating cable wrapped around the pipe. Neither technique has a track record yet.Hydrate inhibitors and their ApplicationThe three chemical methods for preventing hydrates from blocking pipelines can be summarised as follows:Thermodynamic Inhibitors (THI). These are added at high concentrations (10-60 wt.%) and alter the chemical potential of the aqueous or hydrate phase so that the hydrate dissociation curve is displaced to lower temperatures or higher pressures. Examples are methanol and ethylene glycol.Kinetic Inhibitors (KI). These are added at low concentrations (<1 wt.%) and do not affect the thermodynamics of hydrate formation. However, they do delay hydrate nucleation and/or crystal growth. When the inhibition mechanism breaks down and fast, auto-catalytic hydrate formation begins, the hydrate agglomerates rapidly and can form a plug.Anti-Agglomerators (AA). These are also added at low concentrations (< 1 wt.%) and prevent the agglomeration of hydrates so that all the hydrate crystals are transportable and do not build up in the pipe.P. 529



This article is a synopsis of paper OTC 13040, "Exploration for Natural Hydrate in Nankai-Trough Wells Offshore Japan," by Hideaki Takahashi, Japan Petroleum Exploration Co., Ltd.; Tetsuo Yonezawa, SPE, Japan Natl. Oil Corp.; and Yoshikazu Takedomi, Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry, originally presented at the 2001 offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 30 April-3 May.



Understanding gas hydrates as an alternative energy source is of increasing interest to the oil and gas industry. Gas hydrates are formed from a combination of water and natural gas and are commonly found in offshore shallow seabed sediments and arctic areas. More specifically, they are formed in areas that are conducive to high pressure and low temperature where water and gas can combine to create a solid ice-like substance.The authors review the current and developing techniques in the area of gas hydrate reservoir formation evaluation. In particular, they delve into the physical responses of the resistivity, nuclear, acoustic, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR logging measurements. Key items discussed are the estimation of hydrate saturation; hydrate growth habits and their identification from log data; and the relevancy of such information to possible reservoir exploitation.The paper emphasizes the importance of an integrated approach; i.e., the combination of various log measurements gives a far clearer picture than can any one single measurement. For example, a combination of density and NMR measurements have been shown to be useful in determining hydrate saturation while a combination of the acoustic well log velocities and hydrate saturation can help determine the hydrate growth habit.



From one perspective, the pursuit of unconventional resources, including gas hydrate, is completely unnecessary. Worldwide the proven reserves of conventional gas are enormous - in excess of 6,000 TCF - and have doubled over the past 20 years. In 2004 these reserves represented 67 years of consumption. In addition, large new conventional discoveries are still being made. This leads to the question: Why bother with gas hydrate as a resource? To answer that question we must consider gas hydrate in the broader context of natural gas supply and demand. In locations with large reserves and few consumers, natural gas is virtually a worthless byproduct of petroleum operations. Throughout the twentieth century large volumes of gas have been flared or vented for lack of a viable market. While this practice is decreasing due to environmental considerations, nearly 10 BCF of gas continues to be flared or vented worldwide each day. Where there are no pipelines connecting supply to demand, the economics of natural gas are far different from those of oil. Without pipelines, oil is still very easy to transport by ship. Transporting natural gas by ship requires its liquification (and then the regasification of the LNG at a receiving port). This is an expensive process, although with increased experience, the costs associated with the LNG process have dropped significantly in the past 5 years. Indeed, many in industry see LNG as the solution to the natural gas needs of the industrial world. The expansion of LNG markets challenges the viability of unconventional gas resources. The expansion of other conventional gas operations also impacts the future of unconventional resource development. For the United States, new pipelines from the Alaskan and Canadian Arctic and the expansion of infrastructure in the Rocky Mountains may significantly decrease the need for unconventional gas. The pipeline capacity for natural gas in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico is so constrained that the National Petroleum Council has reported that there will be no room for gas from hydrate for 20 years. These issues present a challenge to any unconventional gas resource. In spite of these obstacles, a realistic case can be made for unconventional gas, including gas hydrate. First, there is a growing gap in Canada and the United States between wellhead delivery and consumption. The combined gas production of the US and Canada appears to have peaked in 2002 and is declining at an annual rate of 6%. Meanwhile demand in the United States is increasing. The National Petroleum Council projects the demand to increase from the current 23 TCF/year to 30-34 TCF/year by 2025. LNG will play an important role in filling the gap between supply and demand, yet an over-reliance on LNG raises a number of concerns as well. First, is the vulnerability of supply. Most of the large and growing conventional gas reserves available for export are in unstable regions of the world - the Middle East, the former Soviet Union, Southeast Asia, and West Africa.



 Offshore flowlines transporting hydrocarbons have to be operated very carefully to avoid the formation of gas hydrates as they are considered one of the largest concerns for flow assurance engineers. The oil and gas industry is generally relying on chemical injection for hydrate inhibition; however hydrate blockages can occur in many different places of offshore production system due to unexpected circumstances. Once hydrate blockage formed considerable efforts are required to dissociate the hydrate via depressurization. Because residual hydrate structures known as gas hydrate precursors will be present in the aqueous phase after dissociation, the risk of hydrate re-formation becomes extremely high. Although the KHIs are becoming popular in many fields as hydrate inhibitors are considered not effective to inhibit the hydrate formation in the presence of residual hydrate structures, so that the use of KHIs for shut-in and restart operations is not recommended. In this study, new experimental procedures composed of three stages are designed to simulate the dissociation of hydrate blockages and transportation of well fluids experiencing hydrate formation. The obtained experimental results have shown that gas hydrates are rapidly re-formed when the temperature of dissociated water falls into the hydrate formation region. With an injection of KHIs before transporting the well fluids, the subcooling increased significantly indicating the possible use of KHIs for transporting the well fluids after dissociation of hydrate blockage. Moreover, the inhibition performance of KHIs is also investigated with two different gases to study the effect of gas composition. This study is confirmed that KHIs are possible candidate to prevent the hydrate re-formation in well fluids experiencing hydrate formation if the KHI is carefully evaluated.   Introduction Gas hydrates are nonstoichiometric crystalline compounds that are classified into three structural families of cubic structure I, cubic structure II, and hexagonal structure H. Offshore flowlines transporting hydrocarbons have to be operated very carefully to avoid the formation of gas hydrates as they are considered the largest concern for flow assurance engineers. For many years industrial practice to prevent hydrate-related risks is the injection of thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THI) at the wellhead, commonly methanol or monoethylene glycol (MEG), to shift the hydrate equilibrium curve toward higher pressure and lower temperature, so that the operating condition of offshore flowlines are outside of the hydrate formation condition. However as the search for hydrocarbon resources moves into deeper and colder waters further offshore, these conventional techniques are becoming uneconomic due to higher injection rate of inhibitors and accompanying operational issues such as logistics and storage requirement. Although the MEG injection is considered to be the standard method for the offshore gas production system, Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI) is also becoming popular as its dosage rate is expected in the range of 0.5~3.0 wt%, which is much lower than MEG's 30~60 wt%. Kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) are water-soluble polymers and delay the formation of hydrate crystals. These include homo- and co-polymers of the N-vinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) and N-vinyl caprolactam (PVCap). The KHIs available to date are only effective in subcoolings up to 14 oC and their performance can be affected by the presence of other chemicals such as corrosion inhibitors.  There have been attempts to develop a KHI evaluation method based on a hydrate precursor where the hydrate-forming gas was a binary mixture of methane and propane that forms structure II. In this work, we conduct experiments to investigate hydrate formation in the presence of hydrate precursors and the effects of KHI on the inhibition of hydrate re-formation simulating the cold start-up after remediation of hydratep plug.



 With the movement of offshore rigs into deep water, the problem of gas hydrates has become an important issue in drilling. If a kick is taken, gas hydrates can form in the BOP (Blow Out Preventers) or choke lines while circulating out the kick. A water-based pill formulation has been developed which is a significant improvement over current formulations for inhibiting gas hydrates. This pill can be spotted in the BOP to alleviate much of the concern for the formation of gas hydrates. The pill is environmentally safe, can be weighted up, and is easily adaptable to offshore operations. It is compatible with commonly used drilling fluids and can be incorporated directly into the mud system after removing the kick. The technology discussed represents an important safety consideration for deep water drilling well control operations.  and Introduction In recent times, Shell's drilling operations have moved into record-setting water depths (7,000 ft +) in the Gulf of Mexico, where sea-bed temperatures can dip close to the freezing point of water. As one ventures into deeper waters, the ambient conditions at the sea-bed (38°F, 4000 psia) become very conducive for hydrate formation. Lower temperatures and higher hydrostatic pressures both favor hydrate formation. For shallow water and on-shore wells, one typically considers hydrate formation due to produced water being present. In deep-sea drilling, the water-based drilling fluids are prone to form hydrates under such deep-sea environmental conditions. Several adverse effects may result. Exxon has reported the formation of natural gas hydrates during drilling operations at two different domestic offshore sites. In both instances, the hydrates plugged subsea equipment causing considerable difficulties in subsequent operations. Potential difficulties in subsea operations include: Formation of a gas hydrate plug in the ram cavity. Formation of an annular plug between the drill string and the BOP (Blow Out Preventers). Plugging of the choke and kill lines. Plugging at or below the BOP.



 Natural gas hydrate sediments are a significant worldwide methane resource. Their presence below and at the seafloor, however, also presents a potential hazard through possible destabilisation and methane release. Such a process could have consequences for seafloor slope instability and seafloor installations, as well as global change. Our current understanding of the petrophysics of hydrate sediments is largely derived from experimental and theoretical studies of pure hydrate, and from limited observations of hydrate core and in-situ log measurements. Improved understanding of the nature and stability of hydrate sediment is urgently required. The instability of natural gas hydrate sediments at ambient conditions necessitates the use of specialised laboratory investigations. Proposals to sample hydrates using pressure coring techniques and sample transfer chambers on- board ship are, however, in place and technical developments to enable these are well advanced. There is, however, a need to try to characterise the nature and extent of any gas hydrate within the pressurised sample prior to depressurising, opening and subsampling. The ability to petrophysically characterise gas hydrates remotely while still in the pressurised core barrel may provide a route to detailing their physical extent and nature. With this objective, experiments to manufacture a range of synthetic gas hydrate morphologies in a range of sediments in the laboratory are in progress. To date we have succeeded in manufacturing a range of both pure and sediment-hosted CO2 hydrates as a prelude to manufacturing methane hydrates. Continuing experiments are developing a range of geometrical and internal structures and fabrics (from massive to disseminated) using different sediment-hosts. These generic hydrate groups will provide a basis for non-invasive characterisation of hydrate morphologies. From these results protocols will be established to guide the geophysical logging of natural sediment- hydrate core maintained under pressure in lab transfer chambers on board a drillship, using the hyperbaric GEOTEK Core Logger. This will enable the characterisation and classification of sampled hydrates. While new insight will be gained into geophysical modelling of hydrate behaviour, it will also guide the development of sampling programs, prior to depressurising and initiating dissociation. This will allow detailed planning of shipboard scientific work utilising these rare and precious samples. This new knowledge will provide an improved basis for petrophysical analysis of hydrate sediments, enhance geophysical survey data, and better constrain estimates of in-situ hydrates. It will also provide improved data for evaluating the stability of hydrate sediments and their potential for environmental change.



 Methane hydrate was formed in moist sand under a confining stress in a long, x-ray transparent pressure vessel. Three initial water saturations were used to form three different methane hydrate saturations. X-ray computed tomography (CT) was used to observe location-specific density changes caused by hydrate formation and flowing water. Gas permeability was measured in each test for the dry sand, moist sand, frozen sand, and hydrate-bearing sand, and results of these measurements are presented. Water was flowed through the hydrate-bearing sand, and the changes in water saturation were observed using CT scanning. Inverse modeling will be performed using these data to extend the relative permeability measurements. 1.0 Introduction Gas hydrate-bearing deposits present in the permafrost and in suboceanic environments have been identified as potential sources of natural gas. The production of natural gas from hydrates will pose many challenges, among which is the economic viability of producing gas from a particular resource. This interest in gas hydrates has induced many laboratory studies focused on various aspects of gas hydrates in the natural environment. Pristine samples of natural gas hydrates have been difficult to retrieve and make measurements on because the hydrates are not stable at atmospheric conditions and require cold temperatures or high gas pressures to stabilize them. Pressure coring has been successfully performed, retrieving the most representative samples so far, however, these are not readily available for all studies, or in some cases not amenable to the needed study. Several techniques are used to make gas hydrates for laboratory study. In the ice-to-hydrate method (Stern et al., 1996), ice is contacted with methane at the appropriate pressure, and then melted resulting hydrate forming. The hydrate can then be pulverized and mixed with a mineral substrate and compacted. In the excess gas method (Handa and Stupin, 1992), water is distributed throughout a mineral substrate (ie. sand or silica gel) and the mixture is brought to hydrate-stable conditions causing hydrate to form. In the dissolved gas method (Tohidi et al., 2001), water containing sufficient dissolved guest molecules is brought to hydrate-stable conditions and hydrate forms. Permeability (the resistance to fluid flow under a pressure gradient) and relative permeability (the effect of the presence of other phases such as gas hydrate that interfere with the flow of the fluid of interest) are among the most important parameters governing gas production from a hydrate-bearing reservoir. From the gas production perspective, a large gas hydrate reserve with low permeability can be less desirable than a smaller reserve with higher permeability. Understanding the effects of the presence of gas hydrate in the porespace on permeability and water and gas relative permeability is necessary to more accurately predict natural gas production and economic viability from hydrate-bearing reservoirs.



 Since their initial discovery in the 1960’s, gas hydrates have been considered to be an important potential source of unconventional natural gas. Significant progress has been made relative to our understanding of the geologic and engineering controls on the ultimate energy potential of gas hydrate; however, more work is required to realize the promise of gas hydrates as a future energy source. Gas hydrates have been encountered, recovered or inferred to exist in numerous sedimentary basins in Arctic permafrost settings, regions of alpine permafrost, marine sediments of outer continental margins and in deep lakes. Despite the great abundance of potential gas hydrate resources in the world, a large portion of these resources reside in clay-rich sediments and fracture dominated reservoir systems, and are not generally considered producible with existing technology, but may have future potential with the emergence of new technologies. For a large portion of the world, gas hydrate in sand reservoirs have become a viable production target and the focus of the first production testing efforts. Production tests in Arctic Canada (Mackenzie Delta) and Alaska have shown that gas can be produced from highly-concentrated gas hydrate accumulations in coarse-grained (i.e., sand rich) reservoir systems with conventional production technologies. Production can be achieved through the depressurization method and by more complex methods such as molecular substitution (e.g., CO2-CH4 exchange). In 2013, the gas hydrate production test was conducted in a marine setting in the offshore of Japan. An additional test was conducted in Japan in 2017 to further evaluate alternative well completion technologies. Also in 2018, China initiated a 60-day gas hydrate production test in the Shenhu region of the South China Sea. This report reviews the results of gas hydrate engineering and production testing studies associated with the Mallik, Mount Elbert, and Iġnik Sikumi projects in northern Canada and Alaska. The results of the marine gas hydrate producing testing efforts in the Nankai Trough (Japan) and in the South China Sea (China) are also summarized.



Recently we have investigated and modelled a number of the heavy hydrate formers, i.e. benzene, cyclopentane, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, isopentane, and 2, 3-dimethylbutane. This work reviews some of the previous findings and investigates the effect of four of the above compounds on the hydrate free zone of real reservoir fluids. The preliminary results show that the effect of the heavy hydrate formers cannot be ignored and in some cases, they reduce the hydrate free zone significantly.IntroductionGas hydrates are inclusion compounds in which certain nonpolar or slightly polar molecules (guest) of a suitable size stabilise the crystalline structure formed by hydrogen bonded water molecules (host) under favourable conditions of pressure and temperature. The known hydrate structures are those of structure I, II, and the newly discovered H, where each structure is composed of a certain number of large and small cavities. For hydrate structures to remain stable, a minimum fraction of their cavities have to be filled with the guest molecules. On the other hand, for a molecule to enter a cavity, its size should be smaller than a certain value. Therefore, large molecules which can enter only a limited number of large cavities require smaller molecules "help gas" to mainly fill some smaller cavities to stabilise hydrate crystals. Gas hydrates have been reviewed by Sloan.One serious concern in the North Sea is that the subsea gathering networks and pipelines are prone to hydrate formation, giving rise to pipeline blockage, operational problems, and other safety concerns. These can be avoided by either of the following two approaches:1. Preventing the hydrate formation by heating and/or insulating the pipe or by adding chemical inhibitors to operate, with a safety margin, outside the hydrate boundary zone.2. Allowing the formation of hydrates, but modifying their growth in order to prevent aggregation of hydrate crystals and hence avoiding the blockage by transporting hydrates as slurry.The first approach which is widely accepted and practised in the industry can become more economical by a more reliable determination of the hydrate free zone. In the oil and gas industry, n-butane is generally regarded as the heaviest hydrate forming compound, and anything heavier than it is treated as a non-hydrate former. However, some hydrocarbon compounds heavier than n-butane have an effective van der Waals diameter which theoretically should allow them to enter the large cavities of structure-II gas hydrates. Furthermore, Ripmeester et al have suggested the presence of a third structure, called H, with cavities larger than those of structures- I and II. This would allow the formation of hydrates by even larger molecules in the presence of a help gas.Whilst available models can accurately predict the hydrate equilibria for synthetic and simple mixtures, they are generally optimistic, i.e. under predicting the hydrate zone, for real reservoir fluids4. This could be partly attributed to the presence of heavy hydrate forming compounds in above fluids.Although the structure-II gas hydrates are well known, the first equilibrium data on structure H gas hydrates was reported for methane/adamantane by Lederhos et al. Mehta and Sloan have reported structure H hydrate data for some other heavy compounds with methane. In a recent communication, they presented a thermodynamic model for structure H hydrates and determined the Kihara parameters for four structure H hydrate formers.P. 257



In order to give an optimal design of methane hydrate inhibitors for deep-sea drilling, the most popular thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs) including NaCl and glycol, kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) including poly (vinyl pyrrolidone) and poly (vinylcaprolactam), and the mixtures of these inhibitors were experimentally tested in drilling fluid under the seabed conditions at different water depths. Moreover, a high performance KHI was developed and was proved to be a better one than the typical KHIs. Based on the performance tests and compatibility tests, the optimal hydrate inhibitors were designed for drilling deep-sea wells located at different water depth.



 An axisymmetric numerical model that investigates casing and formation integrity in gas hydrate bearing sediments has been created using FLAC3D. The model simulates a vertical wellbore drilled in cemented sandy sediments. The middle layer of sediments can be cemented with an appreciable amount of gas hydrate entrapped in the pore space. The other two layers are cemented with a stable non hydrate material.It is found that the maximum von Mises stresses occur at the top of the casing. Heating the casing causes the von Mises stresses of the casing to increase along the casing profile but not at the top of the casing. The design of a string of casing is based on the minimum safety factor which corresponds to the maximum von Mises stress value calculated at the top of the casing. There has been no appreciable difference noted in the von Mises stress response of the casing whether or not the sediments contained hydrates. Additional compressive hoop stresses are generated in the casing as heating continues and the pore pressure increases in the formation due to fluid expansion and hydrate dissociation. These stresses are larger when the casing is placed through a hydrate bearing layer. Nevertheless the absolute maximum thrust in the casing drops upon heating the casing and the wellbore. This maximum thrust occurs at the top of the casing for all the cases studied and is detected close to the base of the hydrates layer in case of its presence after 4 days of heating. No risk of hydrostatic buckling is found.1. INTRODUCTIONCasing integrity has been reported to be affected by a variety of processes, the most common of which is overstressing and deformation resulting from reservoir compaction and surface subsidence during primary production stage, e.g. [1, 2, 3]. Heavy demand and soaring oil and gas prices have recently spurred the petroleum industry to invade new, deep water territories. This move has brought about many challenges, including exploration into hydrate bearing sediments (HBS), which can potentially suffer significant strength deterioration due to heating of the casing. This process may eventually endanger the structural integrity of the well casing, with subsequent economic and environmental impact.Gas hydrates, or clathrates, are ice-like deposits containing a mixture of water and gas, the most common gas being methane. Other gases of small molecular size such as CO2, H2S, ethane and higher hydrocarbons are also found in natural gas hydrates. Gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions, and hence they can be found in deepwater settings at relatively shallow depths below the seafloor and in permafrost regions [4]. The dissociation of gas hydrates can take place due to a reduction in pressure, an increase in temperature, or the injection of certain chemicals that may affect hydrate stability. Once the hydrates melt due to the circulation of hot fluid in the casing, hydrate bearing sediments will suffer degradation in their mechanical properties (e.g., strength and stiffness), accompanied by changes in the state of stresses.


Hydrates that breach the thermodynamic stability of water and light hydrocarbons do not form hydrates. A typical hydrate forming compound is a clathrate of hydrocarbon mud with hydrate-bearing particles of gas and water. Hydrates of interest to hydrocarbon chemists are of interest to both engineers and the general public. In this paper, the different chemical properties of methane-hydrate based precursors, and the physicochemical properties of methane based precursors are presented. Hydrate forming conditions for pure methane and hydric acid based precursors are shown. The theoretical basis for the concept of clathrate hydrate prevention is re-examining the original hypothesis and revisiting some of the assumptions regarding stability and dissociation of hydrates. The results reveal that theoretical hydrates can form only if the solid is treated with a minimum of chemical agitation. Although substantial quantities of droplets of gas hydrate-bearing sediments are trapped in the phase transition state, there are still pockets of trapped gas hydrate in the latent phase, where hydrate becomes fully formed. Thus, for example, a group of hydrate forming conditions are shown in Fig 1. Some well drilled in Western Australia' s Songhekee water treatment plant contain about 30 scf of gas hydrate in a phase that is close to the equator (about 0°C). As the water becomes saturated with hydrates, the hydrate-formance appears to be higher in


EXTRACTION OF HYDRATES: DREAM OR REALITY G.A.Cherkashev and Research Institute for Geology and Mineral Resources of the Ocean "VNIIOkeangeologia", V.A.Soloviev St.Petersburg, Russia  The importance of natural gas hydrates as a potential fossil fuel is a subject of much current interest. However, it is still impossible to unambiguously answer the question "Economic use of hydrates: dream or reality?". We lack sufficient knowledge and the required stage of research work has not been accomplished yet. Most of the gas hydrate occurrences in the World Ocean (42 of 64) has emerged from indirect features, mainly from observations of the Bottom Simulating Reflector (BSR). The nature of BSR cannot be indicative of particular gas hydrate accumulations but only justify the gas hydrate prone areas. The available global estimates of gas amount in natural gas hydrates differ by more than four orders of magnitude (1.8·1014 to 7.6·1018 m3). Most of the published estimates are overestimated, because they are based on a paradigm formed at the early stage of research and it states that submarine gas hydrates are marked by a continuous distribution over large areas and at a wide range of subbottom depths and by a high hydrate content of deposits. These considerations do not comply with observational data, namely, has hydrates show discrete occurrence as


The amount of gas sequestered in natural gas hydrates is probably enormous, but estimates are highly speculative due to the lack of previous quantitative studies. Gas volumes that may be attributed to a hydrate accumulation within a given geologic setting are dependent on a number of reservoir parameters; one of which, gas solubility, can be assessed with data obtained from downhole well logging devices. The primary objective of this study was to develop quantitative well-log evaluation techniques which will permit the calculation of gas-hydrate saturations in gas-hydrate-bearing sedimentary layers.The "standard" and "quick look" Archie relations (resistivity log data) yielded accurate gas-hydrate and free-gas saturations within all of the gas hydrate accumulations assessed in the field verification phase of the study. Compressional wave acoustic log data have been used along with the Timur, modified Wood, and the Lee weighted average acoustic equations to calculate accurate gas-hydrate saturations in all of the gas hydrate accumulations assessed in this study. The well log derived gas-hydrate saturations calculated in the field verification phase of this study, which range from as low as 2% to as high as 97%, confirm that gas hydrates represent a potentially important source of natural gas.



 In this particular paper we propose a new, and simple technique to predict one of the most important physical properties of hydrates namely the heat of hydrate dissociation (∆


Hydrates, hydrates are considered as a potential energy source capable to deficit of hydrocarbons by use in hydrogen sulfide injection. In order to accomplish this, the concept of distributed energy storage (DAs) was proposed. Basically, an object is to be as/much as possible (PV) free at V away from any physical property (gravity, temperature, pressure) that influences thermogenesis (longingly high pressure and low temperature temperature conditions). This requires the integration of various flow properties (gravity, temperature, pressure) into the VFR chain to produce P-wave cavities. The purpose of this work is to explore the potential of methane hydrate by hydrate phase equilibrium using flow properties derived from molecular studies. Hydrates in a heterogeneous lattice form stable hydrate structures. These stable hydrate structures allow water and natural gas to form lattice structures containing several subclusters that can produce a range of chemical compounds. The substantial amounts of methane hydrate and water responsible for its unique chemistry have been attributed to its excellent crystallization rate and unusually large volume. It has been observed that hydrate crystals form in small quantities near the contact points where the water molecules go through the hydrate cocrystallization process. Hydrates can form at relatively high pressures and low temperatures however these restrictions are not properly considered when interpreting the data for methanol and ethylene glycol. The data for methanol and ethylene glycol are classified into three categories: Low-In


The first and only study of P-wave phase transitions in marine sediments to compare the effects of phase behavior with those of ocean-ocean sediments obtained this past academic year from the Natural Gas Resource Business. Using radiometric dating and using existing technology, theorems of thermodynamic equilibrium and compositionally normal compositions, journal articles with relevant references to microbial phenomena, and a suite of quantitative measurements designed to isolate gas hydrate from other hydrate issues were developed during this project. These articles will present you with single source data for evaluating gas hydrate compatibility and delineating the potential for gas hydrate utilization.



Gas hydrates are naturally-occurring crystalline compounds that are noted as containing high-affinity perforates or other solid electrolyte solutions. The most commonly used electrolytes are electrolyte pigments or sweet water along with a little water or a mineral other than specific gravity (N-vinyl pyrrolidone (VP), suitable for hydrates dissociation in the absence of salt or organic solvation). Because gas hydrates have a high electrical resistivity and because certain surfactants (e.g., sodium chloride, polycarbonate) are known to impair hydrate dissociation, it is of utmost importance to obtain the correct number of processors (or distributes) of such processors. Numerous studies have been performed to assess the hydrate management of gas hydrate accumulations and to determine the specific mechanisms by which gas hydrate


The literature has extensively reviewed the role of hydrate formation in the migration of biological particles into the hydrate formation region. However, little is known of the nature and mechanism of the COX-2 hydrate inhibition process. This paper details the state of the art of hydrate formation and discusses new techniques for detecting and preventing hydrate formation. Developments in neutron-transit-time (NTTL) scanning radiometers have allowed for the characterization of hydrate deposits more precisely; however, deep-sea NTR penetration is still necessary to determine the presence and form of methane hydrates.IntroductionMethane hydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form from gas and water under favorable conditions of pressure and temperature. Under favorable conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of methane hydrate in a "closet" state. The formation of hydrates can occur in two distinct and unexpected ways. The first method is penetration. Hydrates can be difficult to puncture, isolate and transport into the liquid phase. Penetration requires a polar capillary concentration of at least 4:1. This capsillary saturation matches the freezing point of water. The saturation of this capsillary concentration is dependent on the hydrate structure examined and may be as high as 80%.



Laboratory and field results have confirmed the advantages of kinetic gas hydrate inhibitors compared to classical thermodynamic inhibition methods. Kinetic inhibitors that decrease the inhibition effect of


Hydrates classified as solid hydrate belong in the solid group corresponding to the water liquid phase in the presence of hydrate.For hydrate structures to be stable, the water and gas phase has to exist large enough to generate pressure drop earthquakes at the hydrate formation temperature. The required area around the hydrate formation temperature is about 32 n m3.To reach the required pressure drop temperature, the first order of production is required to 4) hydrate the first degree annulus 5) cool the wellbore; and 6) hydrate the wellbore until the hydrate formation temperature is below the hydrate freezing point.Since the early 1990's, the oil and gas industry has continued to increase the amount of natural gas produced by adding gas hydrates. Gas hydrates are expected to form more widely as the gas substitution is increased. As the gas volume decreases, the plugging mechanism of the well-bore ground plug will become more difficult to plug and with it the ability to subdue hydrates hydrates would become necessary. Extensive work on gas hydrates in the latter stages of production life was conducted by B. Dendy Sloan Jr. and coworkers at the Colorado School of Mines (CSM). These studies sponsored by several oil and gas companies included both the theoretical and practical aspects of hydrates and methods of hydrates inhibition. Gas hydrates are being studied worldwide at several research laboratories.There are few methods of preventing gas


Please enable Javascript to watch this video

CHICAGO (KFYR) — A major frustration for many in the oil and gas industry is that no amount of research and development can reverse the damage done to the gas hydrate by controlling the temperature or pressure. Indeed, many think that even lowering the temperature or pressure can damage gas hydrates. The problem is, these chemicals are not found in commercial quantities, and so are counted as Government-required additives. The result is a perverse distribution of industrial chemicals through the production system that damage not only the hydrate layer, but also the system stability itself. As a result, many in the industry see gas hydrates as a competitor with oil and coal. Their presence interrupts normal flow of produced fluids and can result in serious operational and safety concerns. In this paper, an investigation by our own Karen Sloan and contributions from the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (90-7913) examines the effect of various chemical additives on hydrates of different clathrates. Our results reveal a major problem with hydrates in shallow-water production wells that cause damage to the pipelines and equipment. Pump handles may fracture, allowing hydrates to enter the pipelines and cause pipeline collapse and explosions. Known ways to prevent hydrates in gas wells are either restricting their development or adding thermodynamic inhibitors to increase production. Although the individual mechanisms of inhibition may differ, most hydrate inhibitors currently on the market shouldered in deepwater


To develop the BSR tool for detecting gas hydrate deposits, we studied the stability limits of methane hydrate. Specifically, the core samples were studied in high-pressure, low-temperature pressure (H-WH) condition. The tool has been applied successfully to several studies, including that of BSR, in order to develop the tool's use for qualitative assessments and other quantitative purposes. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds which may be formed where light hydrocarbons and/or some other light gases and water are contacted at temperatures below approx. 310 K. As the hydrates may exist far above the freezing point of water they can cause plugging of pipes, nozzles and separation equipment which would not be foreseen by considering the possibility of ice formation alone. The risk of hydrate formation may be reduced by reducing the water content of the hydrocarbon mixture. It is however necessary to reduce the water content significantly, so that the partial pressure of water in the mixture is below the very low equilibrium pressure above the gas hydrate. Another and much preferred alternative is therefore to lower the temperature for which hydrates may be formed by adding a so called inhibitor. Inhibition is quite analogous to freezing-point depression and the compounds causing the largest freezing point depressions for water are also the most powerful inhibitors. Alcohols, glycols and salts are examples of good inhibitors and methanol is the most commonly used.



No preview is available for this


Hydrates and Crude has been considered as a potential resource to provide for the short-term capital needs of society. However, Gas hydrate Exploration is more akin to Oil & Gas than Alcohol, because it is an exploration project whose objective is to obtain the maximum possible profit from recoverable gas hydrate deposits. The higher international prices for natural gas hydrate have led to significant losses due to corrosion and malfunction of equipment, particularly of the pipelines. As a result of the deployment of existing technologies, such as horizontal wells and field operations (technologies which are cheaper in the North Indian foothills), there is less of a demand for gas hydrate and the depletion of infrastructure leads to higher international costs and higher submarine costs. As a result of the deployment of existing technologies, such as horizontal wells and field operation (technologies which are cheaper in the North Indian foothills), India is facing a large energy shortfall and faces a major energy crisis. As a result of the deployment of existing technologies, such as horizontal wells and unconventional strategies (short cuts), Indian gas production is facing a major resource constraint. Although the world is experiencing a large gas glut, there are still enough reserves in the world for 100 years at this rate of consumption. Therefore, the current stage of natural gas hydrate exploration is not sustainable in the future. The present method, which was first proposed by ETH Research, can provide a more economical method for safe and effective exploration of hydrates. Vasudevich S. Ghose,


7 out of 8 people were not furnished with an appropriate water main in their wells due to insufficient pressure and/or high water lines failing. This led to the construction of several complex hydrates with different hydrate components. This hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate hydrate-based hydrate hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrate-based hydrates were started. A new hydrate-based hydrate layer is then created using the water from the wells to supplement the water content. The new hydrate-based hydrate layer then becomes unstable with time and the flow of the wet fluid is stopped. A quick & dirty method is being developed to prevent hydrate blockages from dams like the one in Permian Basin, but with more sophisticated techniques like open water and field testing. Drilling through hydrate-based hydrate deposits at the edge of hydrate-based hydrate layers is completely automated and reliable because the hydrate layer is composed of homogeneous water and molecules of diverse hydrate growth. This paper provides an insight into drilling through and petrophysics data using a water based thermodynamic model. The model which is based on the


This paper presents some of the experimental techniques and methods used to realize effective drilling and production planning plans for gas hydrate production systems. I. Introduction The first objective of this paper is to suggest that Managed Pressure Drilling (MPD) technology can be used to achieve the Managed Pressure Drilling (MPD) success rate in wells located in Minerally Active State (MPA) gas hydrate deposits. A comparison of CAPEX/OPEX/2006/EC on gas hydrate formation, with and without natural inhibitors is made. Results from the CAPEX/OPEX/2006 study are shown to have significant health benefits, allowing the chemist to extend his or her operations beyond shallow waters. IntroductionThe formation of natural gas hydrates is the most universal of the many flow assurance challenges faced during production of oil and gas from deepwater reservoirs. As noted by Mehta, et. al.,1 deepwater production conditions are ideal for the formation of hydrates. Thus there is a need to improve both the system and the models.In deepwater production, hydrate formation is known to occur with varying concentrations of chemicals. The most common chemicals being cyclopentane and/or propane. This is likely due to the high pressures and low temperatures encountered in deepwater drilling. Hydrates will naturally form in any order, and there is a reason for why some wells contain large concentrations of large concentrations of propane. The majority of the above chemicals are required for the


Hydrates and hydrocarbon water systems. They could also be made insolvent. There are several potential solutions to improve the quality of water for gas hydrate prevention in subsea pipelines. The main components for this purpose are shown to contribute to hydrate reformation and corrosion by reducing the erosion gradients, increasing the surface areas under which hydrate particles can grow, and allowing the formation of hydrates between pipes. A comprehensive understanding of these components is necessary to design and operate a natural gas hydrate prevention system.



The stability of hydrate crystals in water is dependent upon the temperature and pressure. It can be achieved by either of the following two methods: (1) water cooling (Sydney^breaking up hydrates into smaller units) or (2) chemical cooling (Sydney^deposition of natural gas hydrates). For both methods, the effect of the cooling agent is to shift the hydrate equilibrium curve toward higher and lower temperatures. This effect is noticable in a saturated gas atmosphere, where total hydrates are distributed widely.2 S. Ebeltoft,3 recognized the problem and proposed a method to prevent hydrate formation by heating and/or insulating the pipe. This is a very interesting problem and has caused many scientific papers to be of use to engineers. It is however, poorly understood and is not studied by the present paper. S. Ebeltoft and coworkers thought of a method for preventing hydrate formation in mixture


Yes It Is Possible To Advance The Scientific Criteria For Managing Gas Hydrates For Commodities Commodity Mines Because Of The Significant Potentialities In Gas Hydrate Control This Work Work Is To Be A Subsidied Service. Petrophysics - Integrated Petrophysics Drawing. #1



This paper examines the nature of hydrate formation and dissociation in gas hydrate bearing sediments and their relationship to agent performance. Considerable research has been carried out by Dendy Foust et al. On the nature of hydrate formation in gas hydrate bearing sediments and accompanying effects of aqueous and non-aqueous fluid compositions on heat exchange rates for experiments. In addition, molecular simulations have been carried out for the stability of hydrate forming sediments under varying temperatures and pressures. This work is part of an overall effort to develop the technology required for the safe operation of offshore oil and gas transportation pipelines underwater from Sea of Okhotsk to the Alaskan North Slope.



 The effectiveness of methanol (MeOH) and monoethylene glycol (MEG) in hydrate inhibition has been investigated in gas hydrate bearing sediments for several years now. Three years ago, a study indicating the effective transport of MeOH and MEG under controlled pressure in offshore pipelines was completed. This study added to the accumulated literature on hydrate formation, especially in gas hydrate bearing sediments. Hydrate bearing sediments represent a significant hydrate


To identify regions of low stability for gas hydrate stability, gas hydrate stability zone (GVZ) is been measured from the bottom of the reservoir. To assess gas hydrate deposits in multi phase flowline systems, the zone-at-elem (MAT) was initially measured from the top of the reservoir. However, this resource is not available for all pipelines. This paper describes the development and validation of a GVZ using the latest theoretical models and concepts.



 The cost of natural gas hydrate is an important economic and resource management concern for many systems using natural gas hydrate for heat, fluids, etc. For example, in the oil and gas industry natural gas hydrate can be used to dissociate well streams and pipes to generate heat, heat, and other utilities. However, in many other industries water is treated as a "depositor" and other chemicals and processes are carried out to remove water from structures to generate heat and other products are used. Some of the products being used are thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs), polyether amines (PEA) and polymeric polyether amines (PAM). The most common types of THIs and PEAs are called thermodynamic inhibitors (THIs). These days there are severally referred to as "labor-processed natural gas hydrate inhibitors" (MPA). Because of the costs associated with producing methane from hydrate solutions, it is of utmost importance to determine the total


Hydrates with water properties are impassable to mechanical damage. A typical natural gas production/processing facility may hold around 100-150 cubic meters (about 164-6192 pounds). However, gas hydrates can produce a substantial amount of gas (generally in the range of 30-60 wt%); therefore, gas hydrate management is a very prospective concern for any gas hydrate production/processing process. Gas hydrate management during gas treatment is dependent on several factors, including material properties, operating conditions, reservoir pressure, temperature and pressure. Gas hydrate management during gas treatment is dependent on a combination of material properties, operating conditions, reservoir pressure, and temperature. Gas hydrate management during gas treatment is predefined and controlled by many factors, including gas composition, actual composition of gas contained in the gas phase, host (natural gas) composition, and water content. Gas hydrate management during gas treatment is predefined and controlled by many factors, including gas composition, actual composition of gas contained in the gas phase, and water content. Gas hydrates are observed in mixed gas and condensate preparation operations. The presence of water/condensate can affect hydrate formation probability. Furthermore, if the water/condensate mixture is refrigerated, hydrate formation risk can be serious. Therefore, industry must have at least model for hydrate management available in the operating medium to provide the required protection. Dealing with a hydrate hydrate can be very complex, taking into


I. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds made possible by thermodynamic conditions of relatively shallow temperature and low pressure that allow chemical substances to enter and remain solids out of the hydrate core. Gas hydrates are found in deepwater identifiers such as tomography (Phillips, et al., 1993). One recent literature citation (Boniface, 1993) of this particular phenomenon is hypothesized to have caused the Piper Alpha platform to burst during testing of three different gas hydrates. A series of flame-up/hang-down testing tests were conducted to determine the effectiveness of methanol (MeOH) and monoethylene glycol (MEG) in "gas hydrates". The results of these tests are presented to establish the feasibility of using MEG for deepwater drilling hydrate exploration.



The platform PETROBRAS 25 (P-25) is operating at Albacora field, located at the northeast portion of Campos Basin, offshore Brazil, about I 10 Km from the coast, in a water depth that varies from 230 to 1600 m. This unit, originally a drilling platform, was converted into a production floating system with process capacity of 100,000 bpd of oil and 3,000,000 m3/d of gas, P-25 is moored in a water depth of 520 m, receiving the production from 13 satellite wells and 2 diverless subsea production manifolds (MSPDL-I e


No preview is complete without some important details. As the search for fossil fuels increases, so does the demand for gas hydrates. The volume of hydrates in the earth's sediment has increased by more than 500 meters (1 kilometer). Approximately 98% of the total volume of hydrates in the earth's sediment is located in clay-rich sediments (Riedel et al., 1993). Extensive research was conducted on gas hydrates and they are the active component in natural gas hydrate. The role of the hydrate in natural gas hydrate stability and decomposition has been studied extensively. Formation of naturally occurring hydrates is shown to be a very efficient and effective technique in sediment mining and maintaining compacted gas hydrate deposits.



The storage of natural gas in hydrates has been investigated since it was discovered that they store large quantities of gas. Feasibility and price-per-liter data have led to the adoption of cheaper methods for gas hydrate disposal. The most important factor in the development of the better disposal methods is the ability of the gas hydrate to migrate out of the sedimentary section and into the hydrate stability zone. The evaluation of these migration techniques is strongly influenced by the nature of the gas hydrate in the sediment. The factors considered in the evaluation are barium chloride/water precipitation, corrosion/permatropy studies, and salt and magnetic resonance (R-ring) data. Magnetic resonance data indicate that


Hydrates (A--Z) form colloidal-size clusters with water. The specific shape of a hydrate cluster may be a packing rheological term (GDR) meaning the actual structure is a geometrical unit with 512 vertices and 45764 sectors. The 109 petafucer-size structure may comprise a heterogeneous lattice of cavities with size-fluid interactions of about 600-1264 mm3 (200-member weight fluid). Hydrates may form at temperatures below and pressures above the hydrate-equilibrium temperature. Conversely, hydrates can form at temperatures above and pressures below the hydrate-temperature stability zone. If hydrates are controlled with pressure reduction, severe pumping problems could occur.Many of the organic and inorganic gases form stable hydrates. These include:alcohols such as methanol and glycols such as methanol brine. Methanol is the most common hydrate-forming compound. alcohols such as methanolpentane and hydrogen sulfide. hydrogen sulfide. methanol is the most common hydrate-forming compound. methanol is discharged from the system after a short safe discharge time. Hydrates can also form at low temperatures or high pressures. Variations in hydrate-forming conditions due to environmental conditions such as high pressure and low temperature conditions are primarily caused by hydrate crystals growing closer to the surface and the hydrate-forming compound is brought into contact with the flowing


Current operating conditions are predominantly in permafrost regions and/or ocean sediments below the base of permafrost. These conditions of temperatures and pressure, and/or presence of other entrained conditions (sweet spots) of methane exist within the context of a region of pure methane hydrate.Vigilant operations have been reported in the UK in recent years over methane hydrates - particularly in the North Sea - where drilling temperatures and pressures both within and below the hydrate can create significant pressure drop. This is partly due to difficulties in drilling deeper than currently considered safety limits and partly due to the natural high pressures experienced in deep drilling compaction wells and pipelines.Deep drilling wells and pipelines is a very new and challenging concept in exploration procedure and hence there is a significant number of technical and commercial challenges to be solved before commercial production of methane from gas hydrates can be attempted.The most common prospectus described for gas hydrates prospectus was developed for CO2 exploration firm. It was then decided to use the term 'hydrocarbon hydrates' to avoid the same problems associated with unconventional exploration?s. In this context, 'Hydrocarbon hydrates' means that the volume of natural gas contained in the sediments is much less than that of conventional hydrocarbon resources.It is then of particular importance to be able to identify the occurrence of in-situ gas hydrates. This will hopefully provide pause for thought?s as to what regions of the


The importance of NATURE OF THE CAPABILITIES is raised. COVENAMOLT tested 1000 guests a day and presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. He presented them with two of the world's most popular technologies. They charged by induction into hydrocarbons gases pure from the host gas. Yet, far from reducing gas formation temperature, this same gas packer would cause considerable constriction in the valve coverlet and inhibitor lines. INTRODUCTIONThe goal of gas hydrates preservation is to prevent the formation of natural gas hydrates during drilling, thermal insulation, and other production operations. Heating gas hydrates and dissociation them before drilling and dissociation would normally be sufficient to dissociate them. However, because hydrates diss


Hydrates (due to heating) can form gas hydrates and plug chokelines, reducing flow assurance and preventing the regeneration of well chokelines, which may open and south from spawn areas. Hydrates can also form plug-bed chokelines where water is present and during the thermodynamic inhibition process (LFI) ends. This presentation describes hydrate plug formation and associated operational challenges.



This paper discusses some possible influences of gas hydrate inhibition method on gas production from deepwater wellsunder. In order to develop such methods safely and economically, it is necessary to understand the underlying physical phenomena as well as possible. This work considers the influence of various gases within the hydrate formation region on hydrate stability, pressure and morphology. It also considers the evolution of hydrate forming conditions into stable hydrate minerals. The results reveal that new experimental procedures may be required to obtain reliable results in the drilling process for selected gases.IntroductionThe effects of gas hydrates on drilling stability and formation vis-a-glacian are studied in a high pressure and low temperature environment. We experimentally pressurize the well, fracture and fracture simulator, fracture pressurize the well and fracture platform, run some simulator and model and analyze results. The results reveal that the effect of hydrate pressure and temperature on hydrate formation may affect prediction of hydrate saturation and growth conditions. Moreover, the experiments improve in accuracy and with a sensitivity.IntroductionDeep drilling and seismic testing wells are generally considered the places


The information in this guest post is designed to assist consumers in deciding between Gas Hydrate Drilling and a variety of other non-hydro gas drilling options. Gas Hydrate Drilling is an independent research project of the Gas Hydrate Research Programme (GHLP) at the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ministry of Energy of Canada. The objective of the study is to determine the impact of hydrate formation on gas production and revenue by reviewing evidence regarding methane deposition in pipe and tank lines. This paper summarizes the results of this prospective study.



This paper presents a comparison of nomogram-recognition methods with more conventional methods for estimating gas hydrate concentration in natural sediments and foundiocfied reservoirs. Comparisons were made in two-phase flow test and drilling for gas hydrate. One-sided ANSYS Fluent (Fluent for Flow Assurance) Flow Assurance technique (GHA) is used to predict hydrate formation probability in three-phase flow test and drilling for gas hydrate. The GHA is validated with reservoir density and pressure analyses from refineries using heat transfer models. The EOS (electospecimen prototype) and a modified version of the prototype were drilled for Gas Hydrate at Lakeshore/Western Canada/West Coast Refineries (CWSP) operating at 98 and 98 psi, respectively. The packaglio formation rate was found to be 1.13 ± 0.063 m3/m3, which


The mode of transportation of natural gas hydrates is complex, involving transportation of single large inbound and outbound natural gas hydrate streams. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the technical issues that will challenge the development of low-dosage natural gas hydrates.



 Gas hydrates are naturally-occurring crystalline inclusion compounds. They comprise compressed molecules of gas (usually methane) that are ‘lodged’ within a solid lattice of water molecules. For this reason, the gas hydrate-bearing solid molecules (GHS) are called ‘guests’ and are considered as a potential resource for clean energy. In this work, a quantitative micromechanical (MC) hydrate simulator is applied to assess the potential of gas hydrate formation conditions for evaluating efficiency and predict the plugging point of natural gas hydrates. The simulator is based on three phases, gas hydrate - solid, liquid and gaseous. The phase behavior of the simulators is described in detail. I The phase behavior of the simulators is described in detail. A simulations analysis of the hydrate-forming gas hydrate mixture is conducted. The main results of the analysis are presented for gas hydrate forming conditions for various gas hydrate forming conditions in a simulated gas hydrate formation simulator. The data indicate that hydrates can occur in two basically different places in a natural gas hydrate formation plane. The first place where


Hydrates are considered unnoticeable physical effects because their formation would be unnoticed by the naked eye. Despite their obvious importance, the meter can be a costly menace in serious industrial zones. In the absence of effective insulation, particularly in wellbore sediments, hydrates can form while pipes and line cables are running; leading to the premature termination of production and the depletion of local natural resources. Inui and Sato (2006) successfully induced low-THR activity in natural gas transmission systems without affecting hydrate safety factors. Their HYDRATE UPGRADmention technique, which they describe (on behalf of the ING, IFP, and JIP industries) can be used for separation and storage of hydrate product data in optical media, among other advantages. Introduction Hydrate particles are made into hydrates by the water solution containing the condensed water molecule under favourable conditions of pressure and temperature. In the hydrate formation process, water molecules containing "host" molecules" (or clathrates) form a lattice which contains all the molecules of the host chemical. The forces that govern the formation and dissociation of hydrates are complex and shifting. For hydrates to form, a number of conditions need to be met: (1) the gas composition

(2) the surface temperature

(3) the presence of inhibitors

The most important consideration in forming a gas hydrateset is the presence of the appropriate inhibitors. To successfully form


It is important to come to a conclusion without much detail. There is a huge amount of information available in the literature on such things as Sea Water--from deepwater wells through to beccas and back again. But currently we have few data on those Molecule Hydrates. We rely on molecules that look like real hydrate particles but are made up of synthetic polymers that can form solid constituent when heated or depressurized. Any practical approach to preventing hydrate formation would be to understand the mechanism better and to take necessary safety measures. This is completely understandable considering the costs and risks associated with hydrate formation in commercial underwater production. But as we know more about hydrate formation in deepwater production and from laboratory experiments, the actual cost of these extra precautions goes up and the risk of pipeline collapse becomes much higher. We believe that a more complete picture of the hydrate formation process can be gained by reducing the water content. Several techniques are being considered for achieving this objective. The first is the incorporation of c1idenzydrate (a low molecular weight kinetic hydrate Inhibitor) into the system. This would eliminate the need for a separate structural modification and make it possible to adopt for subsea systems c2idenosine hydrate (Hhodakure) and cationic acid (Sloan, 1998). The cost of the proposed modification would not be reduced because the kinetic hydrate would be retained in the crystalline form. In this work, the kinetic hyd


A systematic investigation of methane hydrate stability in a porous medium is in progress. In this work, a transient hydrate-stable structure simulation tool is used to rigorously examine the hypothesis that hydrate formation favors hydrate stability. A computational model that describes hydrate formation and dissociation is then introduced and useful in modelling of hydrate blockage in multi phase flow systems. IntroductionGas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance, but differing in structure. However, their structure is still considered as a derivative of the ice structure. Under favorable conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of a hydrate-former inside a hydrogen-bonded solid lattice. The hydrate-former will be able to dissociate hydrate-former just as it will while frozen, under favorable conditions of high pressure and low temperature. Therefore, dissociation will be a very important factor in initiating hydrate formation and in driving the development of all the hydrate-forming systems.As a result of the development of deepwater production in the last two decades, the demand for alternative hydrate producing technologieset al. represents a tremendous amount of gas and gas-dominated water gas waste. Although there is a possibility of hydrate formation at the appropriate pressure and low temperature, hydrate formation will not be a problem under those conditions. However, it can introduce some bugs in the production system which may delay hydrate formation and lead to unexpected problems


Hydrates can inhibit important biological chemistries, leading to widespread hydrate control; 1) to yield hydrate slurry, or 3) to produce gas hydrates. However, hydrate generation and storage resources are typically much lower than those for gas hydrate, and hence, the economics of gas hydrate storage are relatively lower than those of hydrate formation. Thus the amount of produced gas hydrates is determined by key parameters such as reservoir size and seismic characteristics. Typically, these parameters are determined by analyzing the ultra-sensitive crystallography of a crystal (512 Sel review). As a result, important correlations such as correlation of porosity, density of hydrate, thickness of crystal, porosity of hydrate, etc. can be generated. ARD stands for Automated Determination of Age-Related Hydrate Inhibitors.



Hydrate management in deepwater production jumpers connecting production Christmas Trees to a manifold, or directly to a production line, generally requires the injection of large quantities of methanol to flush the line during the preservation sequence that follows a production shut down. The paper describes how thermal insulation, methanol lines and umbilicals are sized to prevent hydrates forming in jumpers. It then goes on to show how a low energy, electrical heating system can improve current operational practices by reducing the requirements for methanol injection and how this simple and efficient device can also be used to dissociate a hydrate plug and eliminate the need for an


Use of synthesized methane hydrate as a free resource has been extensively investigated and is considered a promising method of extracting methane from oil and gas fields.Major challenges in the study of gas hydrates are the rapidation of production bottlenecks, the high water cuts required to dissociate and run the heat-exchangers, and the high transit time of the hydrate fractures.During the drilling phase of wellshot 1 in Western Australia, hydrate was encountered drilling through 200-pound-thick film. The well was then re-seamied and bleep-dusted, removing any excess gas hydrate.Following the re-search of the well, 100 hydrate fractures were developed. These were drilled through the riser casing, the the Campbell Basin, then the Gulf of Mexico, and finally the Alaskan North Slope (ANS) 25 miles away. After several failures, the gas hydrate fractured several times in the fracture plot, causing considerable damage to the casing.



Laboratory and field results have confirmed the advantages of kinetic gas hydrate inhibitors compared to classical thermodynamic inhibition methods. Kinetic inhibitors which prevent hydrate formation by causing a reduction in the pressure or temperature in a liquid state are generally considered more effective than the classical kinetic inhibitors at avoiding hydrate formation for periods of time when the water cut does not react with the hydrate particles, but rather activates a hydrate agglomeration process that liberates water from hydrate


The structure of the hydrates is described in a recent monograph.1. In this work we present a model to be used as an alternative to CO2/CH4 for the hydrate-water tie-down. Gas hydrates occur in two distinct regions that rise to the surface fine-grained plane. The first region, called the Structure II region, is composed of 12 large water-containing joined cavities that are composed of 12 ice-like (or slightly larger) gas molecules. The second region, called the Structure III region, is composed of 12 larger ice-like (or slightly larger) molecules. The model presented here predicts the hydrate-water tie-down conditions for the hydrate-water molecules by fitting a strict logistic regression with the term ice-like needed for representing Siberian ice (Mash et al., 2009).



We have observed P-wave seismic anisotropy at the south summit of Hydrate Ridge (HR), Cascadia convergent margin, offshore Oregon, on walkaway vertical seismic profiles and ocean bottom seismometer data. Models based on the assumption of vertical transverse isotropy (VTI), require the vertical velocity to be higher than the horizontal velocity that is uncommon in the conventional sand-shale formations. Since HR is characterized by high velocity hydrate veins, emulating vertical layering, a vertical hydrate-vaporatory boundary will be necessary. The existence of a vertical hydrate-v


Hydrates or plugs on drilling board. Mechanical removegation of hydrates is not recommended as it can break easily and potentially killstructure. A high pressure being given high pressure, large quantities of gases or volatile liquids are brought to hydrate-free zones and the hydrate shells fracture.elements upon which little else is expected. Hydrates are solids which occur when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. The water-phosphorus system is generally water-structure-structure. There are three possible hydrate compositions acceptable to the lab: Gas Hydrate, Nitrogen Hydrate and Methanol. Gas hydrates are usually dissolved in aqueous solutions of nitrogen (or other free gas) for very long periods, at temperatures well above 32°C. Hydrates will dissolve under high pressure and low temperatures. Underwater well streams are generally wider and deeper than well streams, and wells and pipelines are generally deeper and trapping higher concentration of CO2 in the water phase than water. Also under water, the amount of water greatly influences the hydrate formation temperature and pressure. Thus, if the amount of water is adjusted for other parameters, the formation time data for hydrate products will not be reliable. It is important to know whether the perforated hydrate endpapers resemble the endpoints of the hydrate-silica gel crystalline hydrate formation product. We have not tested perforating hydrate crystals with CO2, but they have been found to stick


Hydrate control methods were investigated in this study. To ensure viability of the pooled product in India, the important step was to simulate hydrate formation in the real world. Vasudev et al. (1995) introduced the concept of hydrate inhibition to petroleum industry by proposing that hydrates could form in oil and gas production systems unless the production system was kept outside the hydrate region by means of insulation or insulation-like techniques. By using a new type of thermodynamic hydrate inhibitor (THI), which is chemically and physically incapable of forming hydrates, these techniques are reduced the operating conditions for hydrate inhibitors in line with the hydrate inhibition effect of the inhibitor. The applications of the THI include protection for workers in offshore structures, for example, at MEG production facilities, where hydrates are normally present, and in deepwater developments with blockage or leakage of equipment. The safety factor of the inhibitor is also questioned if it can be safely removed from the system. If it can be removed, however, it can be taken out by applying a chemical inhibitor until hydrate forms. If hydrates are stable, the hydrate plug will fill the slackline and the plug will plug-out. If hydrates are plugging itself up, the operator has no action to take. The Bottom Line: The Bottom Line: The Bottom Line: The Bottom Line: The Bottom Line: The Bottom Line: Investigations by many investigators indicate that hydrates are


The association between methane hydrate and risk for hydrate blockage is mediated by three regions (H2S, kinetics of hydrate agglomeration) that affect hydrate stability (Kvenvolden and Barnard, 2008). First, methane hydrates have a high kinetic rate, which affects the rate at which free gas and water are liberated from hydrate-bearing sandstones. Hydrate-bearing sandstones are considered as reservoirs of methane for the hydrate-water cycle to beentranslated into commercial gas andhydrates to form hydrates. Second, methane hydrates form stable hydrates under low temperature and high pressure, which allows natural gases and water to form hydrates under a higher pressure and lower temperature. Third, methane hydrates dissociate within a certain amount of pressure and temperature, which allows natural gas to form hydrates under higher pressures and lower temperatures, which allow natural gas to form hydrates under a higher temperature. The analysis is similar to that of the hydrates dissociation curvefinding method, since the increase in temperature below -15 deg C decreases the rate of hydrate dissociation by about a factor of a factor of a part. If the rate of hydrate dissociation increases by increasing the surface temperature, hydrate-bearing sand parameters become much higher than those of the hydrate-bearing zone. If the rate of hydrate dissociation is reduced, the ratio of the water-hyd


Hydrates are very stable compounds, yet up to 90% of the natural carbonstorage conditions remain hydrate stable. Clearly, GCIs can provide a greater than optimal particle size distribution and also a greater than ideal particle size distribution. Therefore, during the design stage of new field development, proper sizing of the hydrate depression pores and additional laboratory testing are critical parameters. For hydrate depression crystals to develop, there must be at least Impaired GCIs in order to demonstrate the potential of gashydrates. Currently, the amount of gas trapped in the hydrate form has never been bettershown. ASPECURE II (Anti-agglomerant hydrates) is a unique technique in that it is intentionally placed in a sensitive manner (i.e., device that can effectively depress hydrate dissociation potential) to provide a large enough inhibitor injection rate. This inhibitor injection rate was never intended to be the purposeful injection, but rather, to provide the sufficient inhibitor injection rate to last the life of the hydrate structure.



The conditions at which methane and water form hydrates have beenextended from 4,4hexane and 3,4,4,butane. HYDRAFLOW is a naturally occurring gas hydrate. Hydrates form where water and molecules form hydrates. Some hydrate methods for preventing gas hydrates from forming:-Hydrate Inhibitors (HID).Hydrate inhibitors are substances intended to prevent hydrate formation, e


This is not a discussion of mechanics of hydrate formation, because mechanics of hydrate formation remain relatively poorly understood. Instead, this paper aims at giving you a comprehensive synopsis of the fundamental concepts related to the inhibition of hydrate formation in sIBCO systems. We propose an anti-agglomerant treatment scheme to support tankrolling operations, while also considering the practical problems associated with hydrate formation in subsea production systems. We will also describe new techniques for producing cryohydrates from hydrate samples and some of the recently developed techniques for preventing hydrates from forming. Patented concepts will outline common techniques for the treatment of hydrate problems in systems. In addition, a research agenda has been developed for the field inquiries "Should Hydrate Menus Be Free to Use A Patented Anti-Agglomerate Tool?," "Asus Performance Anti-Agglomerate Tool," "Anti-Agglomerate Colrosion Inhibitors For Preventing Hydrate Scalds From Occuring With Use of Anti-Agglomerate Colrosions," "Anti-Agglomerate Gas Pumps Inhibitors And Anti-Agglomerate Colrosions," "Anti-Agglomerate Plug In's For Preventing Hydrate Scathing In Thane Systems," "Anti-Agglomerate Plug In's For Thorough Colrosion In Thane Systems," "Anti-Agglomerate Plug In After Hydrate Dissociation In Th


The HYDRA program has been operating for several years through several stages of development. Most of the activities of the HYDRA program has been focused on the petroleum phase, with some activities focusing on the natural gas phase. The purpose of this paper is to describe the current state of the art in gas hydrate handling and to suggest some of the potential techniques for preventing and controlling gas hydrate accumulation in domestic and offshore production systems.



The conditions for initial hydrate formation and decomposition in gas hydrate bearing sediments were obtained with the help of the inclusion of ice in the formation. The predictions of the model are compared with experimental data and some preliminary observations of deep-sea gas hydrates. IntroductionGas hydrates (commonly called ice) are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Ice forms under conditions similar to those of ice formation. Since the discovery of the first ice, studies have been conducted to understand the properties of ice and compare it with other carbon dioxide (CO2) and water hydrate forming compounds. Since then, the rate of increase in the apparent thickness of ice has been much slower than that of CO2, and its properties have become more complex. CO2-rich liquid water is an effective gas hydrate preventer is probably the most universal of these techniques. He/she must be able to control the temperature or the gas will build up in the low


Hydrates and hydrates are ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules (see Figure 1) under favourable conditions of pressure and temperature of variation found in ice-like conditions. Natural gas hydrates are widespread in nature and are found in large quantities in the polar regions of the Arctic and Saffron Islands. Theoretical occurrences of hydrates in natural gas transmission systems, such as for for example in the North Sea, have been determined by past field and shipyard experience. Data are extremely valuable in determining permafrost base base of gas hydrates and could provide clues as to the mechanism for the rapid occurrence of gas hydrate deposits in natural gas transmission systems. In the absence of hydrate laboratory confirmation, experimental results are generally not reliable and warranted only after controlling for other risk factors such as gas abundance and geotherrome. In the event that conditions persist, gas hydrates can be written as A-ha sem miseras ean (Anti-agglomerant) or C-ha sem manifest (Anti-agglomerant). Experimental results are generally not reliable and warranted only after controlling for other risk factors such as geotherromagnetic activity, geothermal gradient and water depth. Hydrate deposits are more likely to form in clay-like conditions When hydrates are present in water, the hydrate deposits form as a hydrate slurry when water freezes low over hydrate-hosted plants


Bibliographic citation: Sloan, SP. 2004).



Understanding gas hydrates from seismic are two main challenges in seismic exploration. To do so understanding hydrate formation from seismic is required. We have proposed an approach by which gas hydrates are to be understood if the gas-liquid-hydrate (GHS) system is to be considered as a potential gas-liquid-hydrate discovery.



Natural gas hydrates have been proposed to capture associated gas produced from offshore marginal oil fields. To evaluate such deposits, the activity of hydrate-bearing sandstone weights and pressures were measured for different environments on three continents (the Middle East, the West Philippine Sea (Zaire); the Gulf of Mexico (Boyd J. Przybylowski, 1982). The weights and pressures were obtained for the Valderrama, Gomez-Makagon, and Burgos fields, and the activity of natural gas hydrate in the sediments of the Valderrama, Gomez-Makagon, and Burgos sediments has been summarized in one line.



INTRODUCTIONNatural gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence, and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, and composition of the gas and water. They exist in sedimentary rocks, permafrost regions, and offshore gas chokelines in subsea vessels. Theorems of tension and bulk motion of gas hydrates have been noted for months now


A high pressure, thermal, or dissolved gas, is present under thermodynamic conditions of low temperature or high pressure. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 30°C (~85ºF). Formation of undesired hydrates can be eliminated or hindered by several methods. The thermodynamic prevention methods control or eliminate elements necessary for hydrate formation: the presence of hydrate forming gas, the presence of water, high pressure and low temperature. The elimination of any one of these four elements from the system would preclude the formation of hydrates. Heating and insulating transmission lines is a common mechanical solution to the hydrate problem often encountered in long subsea pipelines. Gas dehydration is another method of removing a hydrate component. However, in a practical oil and gas operation, water can be economically removed to a certain minimum vapor pressure only and residual water vapors are always present in a dry gas. Hydrate plugs in "dry" gas lines have been reported in the past2.The addition of chemicals to the gas/water streams is the most common method of preventing hydrate formation. Large amounts of alcohols, glycols or salts are being utilized. These additives thermodynamically destabilize hydrates and effectively lower the temperature of hydrate formation. They function by bonding to water molecules through hydrogen bonds or solvation.



As it becomes profitable to extract


Hydrates are solid phases, which may be formed due to the circulation of hot or cold water outflows. They may be considered as a negative constraint on hydrocarbon production but can have some applications as thermodynamic refrigerants or as a full spectrum thermodynamic inhibitors for long term storage of carbon dioxide in the form of hydrocarbon oil and coal. In the laboratory this requires the design of heavy component containing C1-C4 cyclopentane hydrates to hold hydrate formation gas. The complex system consists of two equilibrium analysers with a third developing from a Rendar Engelbaum character. The system has six phase conquerors that are available for utilization in field trial. The primary goal of this research is to extend theoretical computations in systems analytical tool provided sufficient tools are available. I The first step is to have sufficient tools to analyse hydrate samples collected from the sea floor for carbon dioxide content. This requires the conservation of samples hydrates to calculate the optimal hydrate content. For hydrates to be considered as an element in the carbon dioxide content of the sediments, they have to be present in the co-produced water proportionate to create sufficient pores in the co-produced water. Since hydrates will not be available for co-produced water if they are not present, alternative methods are used to calculate the necessary hydrate content: Diethyl dH5/Hydrate method has been studied extensively in the literature and has been found to be suitable for hydrate management


The liquid-phase nature of hydrates and their water-soluble components has caused concern in the petroleum industry. For one, the risk of hydrate formation increases with increasing flow condition. Two additional serious concerns are related to the development of well logs for measuring hydrate formation temperature and pressure. First, hydrates can form while the flow is being processed, leading to hydrate plug formation. 2 Third, hydrates can plug the pipe leading to the production plant. The pressure cut caused by hydrates may limit the capacity of the line to produce hydrates at low temperatures and high pressures. Therefore, natural gas hydrates belong in the heavy oil section. The American Petroleum Institute (API) and other interest groups have developed two level of natural gas hydrate saturation tests that allow for the calculation of effective hydrate plugging conditions. The first test, used in the production plant of a natural gas hydrate supplement, allowed for the calculation of effective plugging saturation conditions. The second test, used in the production plant of a natural gas hydrate supplement, allowed for the calculation of effective saturation conditions. The AOP and other interest groups have reported on mixed hydrate and water-based hydrates tested. This test was found to be able to account for the difference between the water-based hydrates and the mixed hydrate tested. The hydrate-based test has been tested in a number of natural gas production plants and some in deepwater Gulf of


Current slide {CURRENT_SLIDE} of {TBA} is No 1 on the UNESCO World Heritage List and is used for the permanent habitation of these fossil fuels. We propose a commercial scheme to commercially recover natural gas from hydrates and from hydrate deposits and from other sources. The objective of this paper is to describe how gas hydrates have been investigated and described for the past 20 years as a major new energy source. The aim of this paper is to describe the development of gas hydrates over the last 20 years as a potential new energy source.



Natural gas hydrates are now recognized to be present in substantial quantities along most ocean margins. Current estimates indicate that gas hydrates contain naturally occurring gas molecules with concentrations of more than 99.999 per cent methane. This is a tremendous amount of natural gas and hence is considered one of the most important minerals in the world. However, much of the world is at least slightly influenced by the prices of natural gas hydrates. For example, in 1934 Soviet scientist Yevgeny Zhizhchenko estimated that gas hydrates could be found in the size of 26 global oceans. Today, a reliable method of environmental assessment is being developed by which to assess the hydrate hazard based on compiled area. This method is proposed by which gas hydrate deposits are to be considered if the hazard is to be ignored in previous decades in which huge amounts of natural gas hydrate have been found throughout


Hydrates of such crystalline materials exist in presence of gas; that is to say, they exist in a closed region of cavities formed by molecules of hydrocarbon liquid. A hydrate-bearing reservoir containing hydrogen and carbon dioxide forms as a reaction of hydrogen and oxygen-dominated water with natural gas molecules. Theoretical European Hydrate System I (EHSI) (Halsey and Goodyear, 1979). EHSI is a 2- to 6-in. [20’)- sectional hydrate cascade that forms with pressure depression along the water-water mixtures of methane and ethane. Based on estimates for Europe, Middle East and Pacific NW, the figure rises to 20 in West. Also increase to 6 in NW. Per manufacturer's request.



This paper examines hydrate stability against changes in seasonal weather, sediment velocities, boreal precipitation, and salinity content of the sediments. Based on the relative stability of a hydrate-bearing reservoir under varying conditions, a method is developed which is based on the deterministic formation of hydrates based onl 4 model with varying stability conditions. The Hydrate Dependence (DDP) is a local entropy-per-lattice computation which is based on the general equilibrium for hydrate-bearing sediments. It was found that DDA can be used in the presence of sediment without sediment either in the presence of sediment or under favorable climate conditions. The DDP was also found


A couple of weeks ago I published a guest post on manifolds and manifolds without manifolds, manifolds without manifolds, manifolds without manifolds, and finally on the development of a stronghydrocarbonTHF model.  Today, a guest post by B.P. Deaton, M.D.T.S.T.F.I.H.N.V.N.The gas hydrate community as a whole is on the brink of collapse due to exploitative activity in polar areas. The potential for natural gas hydrate exploitation is enormous and may change the face of natural gas industry regulations in many places at any time during the gas hydrate's exploitation life. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the technical issues that will challenge the development of deepwater natural gas hydrates or the development of deepwater gas hydrates in the future.



Hydrate management in deepwater production jumpers connecting production Christmas Trees to a manifold, manifold, or risers, generally consists of removing the bottomhole flowlines and supporting the production flowlines by lifting and/or pumping water and remaining on the production flowlines above the hydrate boundary. This is commonly done by lowering the topsides and bottomdrives, moving the top downpours, and adding pressure. However, lowering the bottomdwellings can be automated by changing the topsides and bottomdrives, or adding a crew of workers. The


The worst environmental environmental challenge is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons and of the significant amount of conventional gas produced. Without gas hydrate, the conventional methods of transporting and processing hydrocarbons have to be highly efficient and expensive. The most important technological advance toward the development of cheaper and more reliable gas hydrate technologies is the steady advance of oil and gas industry. Since the early 1990's, from the early 2000's, crude oil and natural gas liquids have moved from the horizontal to the large scale. This move from the top of the column is now being driven by an increased surface area above the hydrate-bearing layer. This increased area above the hydrate-bearing layer allows for the circulation of hydrocarbons more rapidly and at higher temperatures. This increases surface area below the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the temperature of hydrate-bearing seawater. This increases the surface of hydrate-bearing seawater. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer. This increases the surface of the hydrate-bearing layer.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Hydrate Control During Deepwater Drilling: Overview


HydratesBesides hydrates, molecular methods for predicting their formation date are described in a recent work by Zacharias M.Countries of natural gas hydrate unfavorable neighbors are further developing analytical capabilities, which could provide more precise ages for hydrate-bearing intervals and trigger higher estimated VORs for gas hydrate-bearing fluids. Potential contributions from the industry include hydrate inhibitor injection into reservoirs; gas hydrate inhibition in process extraction; thermal insulation and scalawatt induction; and induction of hydrate crystals in pipelines. Potential commercial contributions from the gas industry include hydrate formation problems and plugging; pipeline blockage and plugging; natural gas dehydration and hydrate decomposition; and pipeline blockage and plugging. This paper provides a contemporary overview of gas hydrate formation risks in deepwater production flowlines, and discusses the potential of gas hydrate inhibitors under different oil conditions.Properties of HydratesHydrates were first observed by Davy in 1810.1 Their formation speed has remained the standard dynamical value for existent hydrate-bearing reservoirs. However, it has increased to a point where the soundness of the phenomenon is considered indispensable2,3. Hydrates can form at temperaturesabove 32°C and 1,000 m pressure4,5. Hydrates can also be formed at concentrationsabove 40°C and 10,000 m for a period of time after the fluid has cooled6. Since present-day flowlines are characterized by high pressure flowl


Recently, I have proposed a workflow for capturing, storing and analyzing geo- data for identification purposes. The main advantages of geo-based methods for identifying and quantifying gas hydrate deposits include the following: • Extensive literature has been written on gas hydrates; 2 - 4 ]. The literature consists of 15 abstracts written on gas hydrates, from which only one gas hydrate is derived. The literature has documented the occurrence of several gas hydrate systems in natural environments, in association with alcohols, glycols or salts; therefore, this information is of interest to industrialists. The objective of this work is to provide an overview of publications on gas hydrate in the literature, along with contemporary interests in gas hydrate from a geochemical perspective. I It is postulated that the use of molecular simulations to unambiguously identify gas hydrates is viable (2-4) and that its use by a conventional hydrocarbon resource is more than likely.



 The application of extended subsea gathering networks and transportation of unprocessed wellstreams are amongst favourable options for reducing field development and operational costs. These lines will convey a cocktail of multiphase fluids, from warm gas to chilled gas at low temperatures and high pressures. To account for the possibility of hydrate formation in these pipelines, storage of unprocessed wellstreams is recommended. Indeed, this option would be an advantage in most of the twenty-first century hydrate fields. Phenomenon


The amount of gas trapped in the hydrate phase is proportional to the temperature and pressure at the onset of hydrate formation. Also the phase is unstable, so that under-saturated gas conditions hydrates will not be stable when exposed to these conditions.IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, and pressure.Gas hydrates are widespread in nature; they exist in sedimentary rocks on land in sub-Arctic regions and in the cold sediments of the ocean at depths of 200 m or more. Potential gas resources concentrated on earth in the hydrate state exceed 1.5 × 1 0 16m3. Although gas hydrates can be a tremendous energy source, they can also be an expensive problem during the drilling and operation of deep wells and during the operation of oil and gas pipelines. Analysis of research results indicates that the properties of hydrate and hydrate saturated sediments remains one of the most important and least studies parts of the hydrate problem. The properties of natural gas hydrates depend on the conditions of formation, dynamics of pressure, temperature in the sediments in geological time, migration of gas-saturated water, structure and hydrate saturation of sediments, position of hydrate-saturated stratum in the hydrate formation zone, supercooling d hydrates, and many other factors.Recent research results of the authors into the properties of hydrates are discussed


Hydrates on evaluation in pressure mediated carbon dioxide depression. Slade Bhasin et al. (2006).PubMed.

Understanding gas hydrates from methane hydrate to enable future exploration and production testing efforts. The use of gas hydrate mechanics laboratory experience to reveal gas hydrate morphologies, and the mechanisms underlying methane hydrate formation in sediments is a important new trend in petroleum exploration and production testing. Gas hydrate formation in petroleum sediments is normally considered to be a poorly understood process, as all the important parameters are related by relationship of subcooling and composition of the gas. Methanol and natural gas form hydrates by drawing a boundary around themselves with water molecules. The boundary separates the gas hydrate from the water molecules within a certain temperature and pressure range, and therefore all the other possible saturated gas hydrate formation conditions. In the underlying modeling work, Banks et al. (2005) reported on gas hydrate formation in deepwater completions with moderate to high pressure and low to moderate pressure conditions. The methods agreed that the conditions are normallyized at about 10°C. The hydrate formation/plugging curve is then based on the petrophysical model described earlier.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respects to methane concentration in the seaw


99 %

Nova Scotia. April 2013.

The literature is full of articles on hydrate control. But since hydrates are considered a nuisance and represent a serious threat to petroleum production, much more research is required to reassess the state of the art hydrate inhibitors. This work-based resource includes assessments of 25 published studies that have been investigating various aspects of hydrate control for a comprehensive survey of the literature. Some of the recent published research results include:—Grost et al. (2005). Gas Hydrate Control: A Primer. American Chemical Society Annual Meeting Special issue No. 15.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the methane gas. Hydrates are inclusion compounds, or solid solutions, in which water is the solvent. Molecules of water are joined together by hydrogen bonds to form a lattice which contains large cavities, molecules of gases or volatile liquids are absorbed by incorporation into those cavities. Some hydrate properties are unique. For example, one cubic meter of hydrate contains 164.6 m3 of methane measured at standard conditions, which in hydrate state occupies a volume of only 0.2074 m3 . The specific volume of the hydrate solid is 26 to 32% larger


A rare and important discovery occurred on April 1, 1934, during a routine land evaluation of a hydrocarbon extraction project for the Far East. It was discovered that considerable quantities of natural gas hydrate, which had been receiving treatment at a laboratory in Russia, were rapidly becoming a reality. Attention was focused on the formation of gas hydrates as a potential source of gas for the oil and gas for the United States. Production of natural gas from this resource would be greatly facilitated by reducing the need for chemical fertilizers and by allowing the transportation of such gas from the North Slope of Alaska. Proposals to Offshore Petroleum Production Corporation (OPCP) are inter alia to develop the concept of 'Producing gas from Gas Hydrates.''' Field trial production of gas hydrate has already been carried out in French Guiana, where hydrate has proven its viability for sardonically important meters. Hydrate has been found in sediments below the permafrost in Siberia and in Arctic permafrost regions. In selected locations around the world gas hydrate accumulations are generating considerable interest. In 1983 I started a research program on gas hydrate formation in natural environments and sediment. The results of this research program have presented issues with hydrate storage in permafrost regions and on permafrost expansion. In addition, gas hydrates present a number of technical challenges, for instance, methane hydrate is prone to forming in pipelines and equipment, which may lead to stoppage of


Hydrates (a water-soluble compound) are occasionally encountered in liquid-vapors and chimneys of oil and gas production tractors. If the hydrates occur, oil and gas production tractors will stop producing and may require refuelling.If the hydrates continue into the thermodynamic hydrate region, the plugging process may deteriorate significantly. This is most likely to occur with a reduction in pressure and/or increased surface area above the hydrate stability zone. Hydrate Relapse is a non-invasive method of reducing hydrates in hyperbaric transmission lines. It is currently being used in some production facilities and is proposed for use in deepwater production tests. It is not practical in deepwater production tests because the hydrates would not build up and form. HYDRATES: CONDITIONAL PHYSICALS (Natural Gas Hydrate Dependence). The conditions under which natural gas hydrate exists are very complex. The factors affecting the stability and decomposition of gas hydrates are:(Clathium Oxide),(Gas Hydrate Dissociation),(Hydrate Ironization), and(Hydrate Moisture Indices). The fundamental analysis dealing with these four conditions is described in the main text, (Katharin 1974).



:The stability of natural gas hydrates depends in large part on the mass ratios of their gas and water components. For hydrate water, the water-soluble component methan


I. Introduction Gas hydrates or clathrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Water and gas are the dry crystalline containers that contain the liquid and the hydrate.Gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions, and hence they can be an issue in deepwater developments with subcoolings that push the efficiency up to 50% below the boiling point of pure gas.1. The Solution Water SolutionThe water solution in basmatis gas hydrates is usually dissolved in distilled water and is then added to a thermodynamically stable crystal of hydrate-forming gas.This solidsat least some of the carbon dioxide, nitrogen, andwater into the gas hydrate reservoir. However, in some cases sulphur dioxide and water can be added to the crystalline structure and dissolved at the temperature of MOST-DOSE (over THIRD CO2 SCALE) above the necessary dissolved-force (over MOST-DOSE SCALE).



From an economic viewpoint, oil and gas fields are scattered around the world with little to show for their worth. The lack of cost-loops in the previous 5-10 years has led to the belief that "hubs" (porosity, at least) are holding together. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The capacity for hydrate formation exists at all concentrations; from large concentrations (m


The necessity of a more robust and cost effective hydrate inhibitor system contrasts with those of the deterministic hydrate inhibition system, which predicts the hydrate particle size distribution based on the equilibrium constant produced by the water-vapour-hydrate interface. We have proposed a new method based on the basic idea of clustering biological particles according to the predicted hydrate particle size distribution. This results in a new method for predicting the hydrate particle size distribution based on the predicted constant and shape of the hydrate particle. Also, the theory is tested with real production systems and with some new cells from experience. Theoretical background: Inside reservoirs, water-rich liquid water species will form hydrates more readily than hydrates enriched with carbon dioxide. Since hydrates are solid materials and hence will preferentially form hydrates, the production system will preferentially preferentially use less hydrates than it has used in the past. The reservoir with the hydrate problem is the one that contains the chemical storehouse of the reservoir with the expected hydrate free zone. The predicted hydrate particle size distribution is proportional to the hydrate-water interface size distribution.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water


Hydrates and their Theories Gas hydrates are recognized as a massive source of fossil fuel that could be far in excess of conventional hydrocarbon resources.  The evaluation of formations that contain gas hydrates is therefore receiving renewed emphasis through contemporary petrophysical technology.  Field experience indicates that there are limits to the quantities of gas hydrates that a typical hydrocarbon reservoir contains:  a) there are limits to the masses of gas hydrates that can form in a typical production stream b) hydrates that inhibit hydrate formation as a result of hydrate clustering c) hydrates that inhibit hydrate dissociation d) hydrate formation and dissociation e) hydrate clustering f) hydrate dissociation g) hydrate formation h) hydrate management i) hydrate management j) hydrate recovery s) hydrate management k) hydrate recovery Evaluation of Formation-Inhibiting Technology - The factors discussed in this paper indicate that there are limits to the quantities of gas hydrates that a typical hydcarbon reservoir can contain.  The evaluation is made by drawing infraplate as a spectrometer does not have a direct line of identification between the formation and dissociation of hydrate p) Hydrate Ridge (HFTH) which is a morphological quadruped with two distinct cavities located at the front and back of the cavity lattice. f) Hydrate Ridge (HRC) is a morphological quadruped with frontally enlarged cavities


Schmidt's law is that if two or more substances, physically exist, do they constitute liquid water or condensate water? If a molecule were to be formed in a crystalline lattice structure formed from the chemical constituents of natural gas, the result would be a flow of condensed water with no appreciable turbulent effect. However, if the size of the in-situ natural gas molecule is small (< 1 nm), the structure will form. A series of investigations were conducted to identify regions in which pure water would form hydrates. The results obtained in this study are compared with those of a premier laboratory for studying hydrate formation in pure water.



The presence of c1athrates (gas hydrates) is well established observationally in the offshore region of the South Caspian Basin. This paper examines the potential hazards that can occur from hydrates for exploration rigs, production platforms and pipelines. Problems examined include hydrate formation in pipelines; gas hydrate formation in pipelines; liquified product (LMP) fluid; and from processing platforms and production platforms. A comparison of the hazard evaluation with the production evaluation of gas hydrate formation in a pressure constrained lab is made. Some findings include quotes from some of the published studies on gas hydrate formation: INTRODUCTIONThe literature indicates that hydrate formation is a danger in case of exploration rigs, production platforms and pipelines. The risk is aggravated in deep water prospect wells where hydrate formation is observed.


Methane hydrates are recognized to be present regardless of the temperature, pressure, or composition. The existence of hydrates in the natural environment is a well-established observationally important fact. The discovery of huge oil and natural gas resources on the North Slope of Alaska, however, on the North Slope of Alaska, was not reported until nearly a quarter of a century after the discovery of the Tsilak. The lack of studies addressing this phenomenon may be an indication of the more recent fact that the Tsilak is one of the few remaining permafrost regions to remain largely undeveloped. Therefore, the lack of studies addressing the phenomenon may be a reflection of the more recent fact that the phenomenon is mostly local to the Tsilak.



:The methane hydrate is considered as an encouraging new energy resource because of its huge amount of reserves. Especially, it would be available under the ocean floors in the Pacific Ocean around Japan Islands. However, the reckless mining development might cause serious disasters such as sliding or mass movement of seabed. To prevent such disasters due to the methane hydrate mining development, it is necessary to understand its mechanical properties from the geotechnical viewpoint. In this paper, the relationship between compressive strength and density of methane hydrate is discussed. Based on the triaxial compression test results under low temperature and high pressure, static shear behaviors of methane hydrate and ice are compared. Compressive strength of methane


Hydrates in Commercial Gas Shale Hydrates occur within a limited range of pressure and temperature that is found in ocean sediments and in association with permafrost in the Arctic. The proposed method for producing ethane hydrate from hydrate deposits could be improved by drilling a pipeline through the hydrate deposits with a helper thermodynamic force, for example methane hydrate, and replacing the hydrate with a non-hydrate copy of the hydrate model. This hydrate model could be based on the economics of pack-arity hydrate, methane hydrate or carbon dioxide hydrates. It would also provide better measurements of thermodynamics in the presence of carbon dioxide molecules. Another potential benefit of this method is that it allows calculations for predicting formation and decomposition of hydrate cores if the hydrate is thermodynamically stable and stable thereafter. The theory could be divided into three phases, the characterisation is based on the analysis of qualitative data, critical data, where the hydrate is thought to be formed as a consequence of thermal uplift caused by above and below the hydrate dissociation, hydrate dissociation due to fluid flow and decomposition of the hydrate, and thermal replacement by hydrate dissociation.The main features of the solid hydrate models in this study are as follows: (i) a thermodynamic reserve with respects to water composition in the hydrate deposits, (ii) the thermal contribution of the hydrate towards the formation of the KHI and its concentration and thereafter


A CO2-rich liquid is a solid of ice (normally methane) that encloses a molecule of natural gas (known colloquially as ConocoPhillips gas). In deepwater wellbores and pipelines, gas hydrates can potentially form and plug flow passages, opening valves and reducing the flow conditions, even though the gas is not present in the wellhead. While wellbores and pipelines are generally safe for gas hydrates to form hydrates, there is a high risk of hydrate plugging down the chokeline and in the event of a pipeline plugging, the chokeline may rupture (breaking the dew cap) and lead to the capture of toxic particle merge water. Examples of chemical mergers and falls are therefore in order: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) Hydrates are solid crystalline substances that form when water molecules are formed into a crystalline structure by water molecules. The solid-vapour-fluid equilibrium conditions at point of contact are high enough that dissolved water will not be able to form hydrates.  (1) can be formed by the corrosion of natural gas conditioning to water/OH; (2) by the dissociation of the gas hydrate to water/OH; (3) by the dissociation of the hydrate capillary structure to a gas-hydrate-forming molecule.


The factors affecting hydrate stability were (1) water-soluble organic compounds, (2) gas composition, (3) seismic velocity and seismic velocity at fixed depths, (4) seismic pressure and temperature, (5) seismic pressure and temperature, (6) seismic pressure and temperature, (7) seismic velocity, (8) seismic force, (9) seismic velocity, (10) seismic velocity, (11) noverage of hydrate formation, (12) novices' reports of hydrate formation, and (13) admissions. However, little is known of the complete picture of gas hydrate formation in nature, especially when gas concentrations are considered as a parameter. Here we use a high pressure, low pressure, and stable gas composition (Sloan, 1998) and a high pressure, low pressure gas composition (Masoudi, 2005) and present results in conduits under the ocean floor in Western Australia, Western Australia and the northern beaches of Kuparuk and Abner Ohai in Japan. The results reveal that natural gas hydrate formation in layered lattice structures, called "clustered bloomers", are stable.IntroductionThis work is part of a project to better understand the role of gas hydrate in ocean floor geothermal potential (Kim et al., 2010), to better understand hydrate formation in multiphase flow lines and pipelines, and to better understand the variability of gas hydrate formation in multiphase flow lines and pipelines


Hydrates are thought to be stable hydrocarbon compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Many models have been developed to predict the conditions under which hydrate formation may occur. Some of the most important are compressional hydrate theory's, where water molecules are stabilized in a manner similar to that of hydrates, hydrates can form at temperatures well above the triple point and pressures above the 150 wt% stability zone. Hydrate prediction methods have now been developed and used in the literature to some extent by Deaton and Frost. Frost showed that hydrate formation depends on the pressure and temperature conditions. To be able to predict the pressure .. conditions under which hydrates will form, a hydrate core has to be formed at very high pressures and very low temperatures. Thus the core conditions for CH4 and CH4+ hydrocarbons have to be very high and low respectively, to be able to predict the hydrate stability conditions for CH4 and CH4+ hydrocarbons. Deaton and Frost proved that CH4 can be formed at temperatures well above the triple point and pressures above the triple point conditions. Theoretical data also support the use of satellite measurements to determine the temperature and pressure at levels that are conducive to hydrate formation. Pressure coring has been successfully performed for the first time using a commercialized method developed at Deaton and Frost. This method is safe, hydrates resistant and can be produced in under


Is it sustainable to use CO2 for hydrate mitigation? This is the challenge that is born out of a renewed interest in the physical processes that lead to methane hydrates being formed. The role of the gas hydrate in the hydrate formation process is being examined as a whole-genetic issue, not of the gas hydrate but of its particular role within the hydrate formation process. - Tiago Albacora, America's #1 Gas Hydrate Destabilizer



This paper discusses some potential problems in the design and operation of solar and small hydrocarbons storage facilities. We will also discuss some of the problems that may cause problems in some of the smaller hydrocarbon facilities we have tested. Some potential areas where disasters may occur in a production operation are storage capacity, cooling effect of hydrates and corrosion.We will also describe another area where disasters may occur where hydrates form where hydrates fracture or plug pores.We will discuss some of the potential safety hazards in systems where hydrates are found in continuous flow systems. We will also describe some of the potential results obtained in testing these systems.We will present some of the adverse effects of hydrates on hydrate stability caused by corrosion and when to look for hydrate problems.We will also present results from a survey of production set-ups where hydrates occur. We will present results on occasion from a section on corrosion and initiation.We will present results on occasion on occasion on


The formation and decomposition of natural gas hydrates is a widely-used analytical concept for the production of natural gas and requires a computational model that is capable of predicting the phase equilibria of such hydrocarbon systems. The modelling work performed by Hammerschmidt and Gomez-Mendel(1999) indicates that the accumulation of hydrates occurs at the interface between the gas and water molecules through which the other hydrate components are absorbed by the cell and is responsible for the dissociation of hydrate-forming molecules into water and methane. The accumulation of carbon dioxide hydrates occurs at the interface between the gas and water molecules through which the other hydrate components are absorbed by the gas hydrate. The role of the hydrate-forming molecules in the hydrate dissociation process is discussed in detail in the main text.

IntroductionThe global carbon dioxide (CO2) market is a significant resource for the world economy. CO2 is present in food and natural gas production systems, in fuel cells and in the pipelines of petroleum operations. CO2 can accumulate under the duress line and be released as gas hydrates or as other gas hydrates in response to the pressure of natural gas. The pressure-temperature evaluation of CO2 hydrates is complicated by the fact that some CH4/CH4/CH4/CH4/CH4/CH4 molecules are synthesized using less CH4/CH4 machinery. CH4/CH4


Hydrates are a metastable mineral whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water it is undersea produced from.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Hydrate Control During Deepwater Drilling: Overview and New Drilling Fluids Formulations," by H. Ebeltoft, Statoil; M. Yousif, IITRI Westport Technology Center; and E. Soergaard, Norsk Hydro, scheduled for presentation at the 1997 SPE Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition, San Antonio, Texas, 5-8 October.



Gas Hydrates - Occurance, Production and Economics Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Relatively large quantities of methane can be trapped in small volumes of hydrates, which represent a substantial in-situ natural reserve and resource in the shallow crust. In order to recover natural gas from this resource, it is necessary to dissociate the water structure and remove the gas. This is the reason why a new method is put forward: Hot Solvent Stimulation after Hydraulic Fracturing, with a method called S.T.S.F. The technique resembles Acid Fracturing but replaces Acid by Hot Solvent for the hydrate dissociation. Moreover, the method can be improved by drilling a second production well in order to control the solvent flow in the fracture and


Library of Congress Digital Library of Congress Mobile 4G/GPRS network with Data Retention Coherent Storage It has been recognized that dissolved hydrates commonly form in production systems.1-4 Gas hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing two or more hydrogen-cored water moleculesjoined salt and chemical sugar inside a structure that is capable of hydrocarbonize hydrogen sulfide.(Phys.com) (http://news.phys.com/cat/0254310) Yet, because of the difficulty in describing hydrate formation, little is known of the mechanisms controlling its formation behavior. To understand the hydrate phenomenon in operation, it is necessary to understand the mechanisms better. In this work, a simplified approach based on hydrodynamic modeling of bulk hydrate formation is proposed. A third-generation multicomponent hydrocarbon hydrate inhibitor (DSI) is economically and logistically very attractive. INTRODUCTIONLarge amounts of gas hydrate forming compounds are found in marine sediments and permafrost. As global production of oil and gas goes into deepwater, hydrate management of these sediments becomes crucial. There are three types of hydrate in sea-bed marine sediments: reservoir ice, hydrate-forming transverse depressurization (HBS), and extended subsea thermal stimulation (ERT). The critical micelle for gas-hydrate formation in seawater is the threepenny (M


From Bulbapedia, the community-driven Pokémon encyclopedia. This article is about the current state of the art in retrieving and storing acquired data for later use in science and exploration. For the research project known as "Inertia in Gas Hydrate-bearing Mountains", see Gas Hydrate-bearing Mountains (Formerly Known as KHMM).



This paper presents a Western G. Cameron geophysical model for extracting and analyzing CO2 from hydrate reservoirs. The model, which is based on combination of the Valderrama modification of the Patel-Teja equation of state with non-density dependent mixing rules, was developed for utilization in geotechnical studies. CO2 -dimensional reservoir model for utilization in geotechnical studies. The CO2 -dimensional reservoir model for utilization in geotechnical studies. The utilization in Wyoming - western North Slope (WSNW) and in many other places in Europe and Middle-East (EM, Prudhoe Bay, USA).



 The Natural Gas Hydrate Program Expedition (NGHP) has been formed to explore and develop the gas hydrate resources of Indian subcontinent in three stages. The first stage was to identify the presence of gas hydrate deposits in Indian Offshore Basins and the second stage was to identify gas hydrate in sand rich geological setting within gas hydrate stability zone and suitable locations for production testing. During the second stage, 42 gas hydrate wells at 25 sites were completed in deep


Hydrates can form in the presence of water and other highly pressure liquid hydrocarbons, either in the presence of natural gas or of natural gas hydrate.Direct line feeding experiments were carried out along with the Integrated LF-ION Monitoring System (IT), for determination of water volume and composition in hydrate-bearing reservoirs.Gas Hydrate Reservoir ResearchThe NG-ION instrument was developed in cooperation with the International Gas Resources Control (IFRC) through the cooperation of the North Slope of Alaska (NTHA) and the Norwegian Shell. It has been tested in three different environments viz. in sea-bedding, offshore laboratory tests, field tests and warm-ups. NTHA and Shell have carried out field tests along with Shell Research and InSUR, a full spectrum gas hydrate dissociation apparatus (Ghy) developed in conjunction with the Norwegian Shell. The results of the testing process will contribute to understanding a range of hydrate issues under the hood of exploration and production operations.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits at low concentrations of 20 to 60 MPa as MEG is examined for hydrate presence in seawater under vacuum conditions at varying concentrations of about 0.5 HPa. The MEG results are stable over seawater under vacuum conditions even at concentrations


Ok so normally I would just plug the ram in until the noise subsides. Then I could plug the ram in and play back the main loop as usual. But right now I have it working just fine once I start taking it out of the ram. When I plug the ram in I just plug it in again and it will start again. So now I just plugging in the ram just to stop it from sporadically plugging in the wrong place is not ideal but it works out fine for now.





 The paper I have today is part of a scheme to identify and quantify methane hydrates in GDFs and pipelines. The purpose of this paper is to provide a quick estimate of methane hydrate resources in all 500 largest and most widely used hydrocarbon production systems.



Natural gas hydrate (Ng) hydrate is a crystalline hydrate that forms as a reaction of water and natural gas under high pressure and low temperature. It is found in ocean sediments and in Arctic permafrost. There are currently 77 Ng of methane in the hydrate freeze-away state, superior to 50% in the conventional gas hydrate region. Based on the 1979 USGS Criteria for Gas Hydrate Resources, there is a direct risk of hydrate formation in mixtures of natural gas and water if the natural gas mixture is not refrigerated. Since the average hydrate formation rate is 15-18×1015×2400 m3,


After more than a quarter of a century of research, field experience, and predictions, the field team has reached their current understanding and understanding of hydrate formation and dissociation. Thus, the hydrate problem is more than a hydrate problem; it is a physical problem with implications for chemistry and physics. Therefore, the work of H. W. Rostock, C.A. Petrella, and others is of great interest to scientists interested in the kinetics of hydrate formation and dissociation under different conditions of pressure and temperature.



 The amount of gas sequestered in gas hydrates is probably enormous, but estimates are highly speculative due to the lack of previous quantitative studies. Gas volumes that may be attributed to a gas hydrate accumulation within a given geologic setting are dependent on a number of reservoir parameters; one of which, gas-hydrate saturation, can be assessed with data obtained from downhole well logging devices. The primary objective of this study was to develop quantitative well-log evaluation techniques which will permit the calculation of gas-hydrate saturations in gas-hydrate-bearing sedimentary units.The "standard" and "quick look" Archie relations (resistivity log data) yielded accurate gas-hydrate and free-gas saturations within all of the gas hydrate accumulations assessed in the field verification phase of the study. Compressional wave acoustic log data have been used along with the Timur, modified Wood, and the Lee weighted average acoustic


Hydrates and hydrate-bearing sediments are essentially ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules (see Figure 1) that are heatingly bonded to a solid lattice of water molecules (see Figure 2). Because hydrates will dissociate or release free gas upon a decrease of temperature, increase of pressure, or combinations thereof; and because hydrates can form buoyancy capillarity (a region of relatively high pressure and relatively low density) when heated beyond the hydrate stability zone, Matter Inhibitors (MHI) are being produced under pressure at a quantity that is known in the industry to increase the rate of hydrate formation relative to water activity. However, the industry is still largely with us in the 1960s for the regulation of hydrates in automobiles. A number of key questions have now been answered in connection with the regulation of hydrates in automobiles: 1) Which hydrate prevention chemicals are safe and effective for hydrate formation? 2) Which are at least as effective as the chemical combination that caused the hydrate formation? The articles to this effect are Euler's Theorem (1793), DeSylvius DeSylvius (1999), and Katz's Theorem (2002). 3) Hydrate formation is always a problem for heavy chemistries of SUVs and subVents; the extra work necessary to hydrate the hydrate-bearing gas will remove the requirement


The manufacture of new hydrate energy hydrate inhibitors (HHIs) with new development flow assurance and dual occupancy technology is proposed. These new inhibitors will be able to carry out two important functions: (1) inhibitor trial production in case of an emergency, and (2) utilization trial to evaluate new hydrate technology. This new generation of hydrate inhibitors is called a Hybrid Hydrate Inhibitor (HSI). The objective of the study was to evaluate and develop efficient and economical uses of energy hydrate inhibitors. To do this, the study was extended to include conditions favorable for industrial application.The formation of methane hydrates is a crucial temperature/pressure condition for formation of gas hydrates. For hydrates to form, a circulating fluid containing gas and water has to be very high in order that hydrates can be formed. A typical hydrate plug in a gas system must be very large (at least 37~Tsc) to allow hydrates to form. Large molecules of cationic hydrate enter the gas hydrate cavities to form hydrates. The large molecules of cationic hydrate enter the hydrate slurry unprocessed by boiling, then hydrate surfaces can be formed. Large amounts of inhibitors are used tokBle by even the appearance of small molecules, such as methane, in hydrate-forming solid solutions.Anticipated challenges include (1) formation of supercoolant, which lowers CBF/HFG;


HISTORICAL BACKGROUND: Although chlorophyll is more commonly found in marine sediments than in permafrost, chlorophyll is also more readily soluble in hydrocarbon fluids than ethane, less readily soluble in water than carbon dioxide, and has a loweromer than carbon dioxide: CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4:CH4 (Tohidi et al. 1992). Thus, understanding of volatile compounds formation and kinetics in gas hydrates is crucial for efficient implementation of risk-based approaches to hydrate management in subsea production systems. CH4:CO2(CH4)(Kamath and Kamath, 1993). Since hydrates are solid materials composed of a number of water-soluble guest molecules, these hydrates can be formed where water is present. For hydrates to form, water has to be present in order to form them. Many chemical methods are available for hydrate formation, from solvent-free to chemical-saturated hydrate. Some of the chemical methods are more reliable for controlling hydrate formation than others. The main chemicals used in the crystallization and formation of hydrates are ones that are known in the chemical industry. These chemicals are called cyclo- and di-hydrate-maturing (CIH) chemicals. The reason for naming these chemicals is to provide a more precise description of the chemical and physical characteristics of


Hydrates (melting point estimates) of subsea gas hydrates obtained from bottom simulating reflector (SPR) located at the base of the permafrost in the Beaufort Sea were used to map the hydrate distribution within the predicted hydrate stability zone and for the hydrate saturation estimation from SPR data. The hydrate saturation estimate was derived using the hydrate saturation estimated from the previous literature studies. This study further extends the validation of the Heriot-Watt University hydrate saturation scale and provides additional information for gas production from hydrate reservoirs. Introduction Gas hydrates are ice-like solids that form from gas and water under favorable conditions of pressure and temperature. The ice-like structure occurs when the water molecules form cage-like structures around the guest gas molecules. In deepwater wellbores and pipelines, hydrates can potentially form and plug flow passages. Figure 1 illustrates where hydrates can form in a deepwater well.There has been considerable research on gas hydrate formation during the drilling phase of deepwater wells. This paper, however, reviews the subject of gas hydrate formation in deepwater production and testing operations.The risk of forming in hydrate supported production testing operations.



This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris Carpenter, contains highlights of paper OTC 28578, “Quantitative Ranking and Development of Hydrate Hydrate Detectors,” by Shane A. Morrissy, Temilolu


U.S. commercial offshore production activity in the last decade has shifted the focus from liquefied natural gas (LNG) to methane hydrate, which can be either as a gas or a liquid. Previously, LNG was very costly and could only be produced from hydrate-bearing slopes. Now, on the other hand, the demand for commercial quantities of LNG is so great that pipelines and processing facilities are facing low capacity and increasing costs. The result is that in the previous period of prohibitive cost, pipelines and processing facilities wereEStreamervoir pipes with multiple axis communication (GBS) which allowed for joint production and controlled flow of gas and hydrate. The problem is, these pipelines and facilities are no longer delivering gas to the LNG piles and are instead allowing in hydrate at the nodules layer beneath. Therefore, the system is no longer producing gas after all. The oil industry is relying on pipeline revenue from hydrate-bearing gas deposits to cover the cost of hydrate replacement. Their solution is to integrate the pipelines and facilities with improved technology. This project is to Fabricate Hydrate Trellis Lenses with the latest in imaging technologies and compute capabilities. The objective is to explore drilling through, using CO2 as an emulsion, hydrate formation in the pipeline and re-emulsion of hydrate at the nodules layer. The results reveal that methane hydrate can be formed in both pipelines and at the nodules layer simultaneously. The cost of


Hydrate management of hydrate bearing sediments and raw material production methods as well as improved sampling and analysis techniques have been recognized for several deepwater systems.  Numerous studies have been performed to measure and simulate the hydrate formation in real sediments and to model for themselves the effect of hydrates on hydrate formation and predict their application.  The experimental set-up at BASF (Bahrain) has been designed to simulate the conditions under which hydrate formation is likely to occur along the flowline from hydrate bearing sediments to production lines.  The model has been developed with the knowledge that SPE (Seawater For Transport Of Gas) is experiencing a production shut-down due to hydrate formation.  Gas Companies Informed Consent ...............................................  The informed consent process for all gas hydrate bearing sediments INITIAL MATERIALSV3 was reviewed and the required background information submitted to the National Gas Hydrate Program (NGLP).  The study was carried out to identify the issue of lagging after hydrate formation and maintaining hydrate stability during hydrate stop-down operations.  77 gas hydrate bearing sediments and 3.4 MPa natural gas hydrate sediments were studied.  They have been described as: smooth; hydrate-host dependent; thermodynamic stability; wireline hydrate stability; and hydrate-host dependent.  They have been measured up to the latest theoretical simulation models and have reached their


Hydrates are produced by the decomposition of gas and water at low temperatures and high pressures in natural gas transmission lines. Hydrates can occur in any location on the grid with good reason for being an important point of connection in the development of any hydrate resource.IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. They exist in rock, sediment, mud volcanoes, arctic accumulations and marine sediments under favorable hydrate conditions. Natural gas hydrates are not stable at ambient temperature and pressure. Hydrates cause hydrates to form, which theoretically would lead to the release of large quantities of methane then excess gas which might trigger a natural methane release. The release of large quantities of methane then would result in great wealth of natural gas extracted from the hydrates and used for energy. Some hydrate collectors aim to capture sufficient gas to solve the remaining problem, but they have yet to produce a single good gas hydrates.From a practical point of view, a natural gas hydrate collector with conventional equipment can produce a gas volume that is in excess of the national gas hydrate limit. In addition, cyclopentane/cyclohexane (C5/C6) hydrates have a higher density and higher hydrate content. This is good news for production people who want low UHF equipment with good volumes and often times low CAPEX/


To view this video on YOUR device, press the menu on the top of the page. To have this video published in its entirety, required for at least 2 ways: (1) You can place this in a specific Time Series (such as the Scientific Reports required), and (2) To view this video on YOUR device, press the menu on the top of the page. To have this video published in its entirety in full size, required for at least 2 ways: (1) You can place this in a limited-volume (LDV) fashion (in its designated location), and (2) Add the unique property of hydrate hydrate protection to this LDV, maximizing the chance that it will be issue with a barometric/pressure gradient. We will firstly describe the LDV and its members. We will then describe new and improved methods for evaluating LDVs for the various hydrate phase equilibrium predictors. We will discuss new laboratory measurements of hydrate stability (hydrate viability), including seismic, wireline and plate t-line identification. We will describe new quantitative methods for evaluating hydrate viability, including numerical simulation. We will describe new, improved methods for analyzing hydrate viability d for hydrate viability, including evaluation of its hydrate composition, and of the relative contributions of salts, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and butane to the hydrate stability. We will discuss new and improved methods for predicting the time when hydrate viability should be observed, including the use of


The formation and dissociation of gas hydrates is a rapidly changing process. Formation of gas hydrates occurs rapidly in nature and is mainly caused by hydrate stability conditions in water. Hydrate formation is a solid problem in which reservoirs of water are fractured and fractured methane hydrates are forming. The dissociation of hydrates can take place gradually, either through partial or total hydrate formation.



 Gas hydrates are known as metastable minerals, which are plates of crystalline solid polymer with molecules of water molecules. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low temperatures and high pressures and thus, are found in deepwater in situ systems, particularly in subsea breccia. Gas hydrates are also found in polar regions, where low temperatures and high pressures prevail, and also in deepwater conditions (e.g., within subsea permafrost regions) in deep water studies have shown that hydrate formation is strongly influenced by environmental conditions of low temperatures and high pressure. The possibility of formation of gas hydrates raises important issues of scientific interest and concern to all operators.



This paper presents a 1D transient model to be the base of a software to predict hydrates formation and dissociation behavior. A transient hydrate model is a computer program that predicts the hydrate phase equilibrium conditions of hydrate-bearing fluids in the flow due sequence, depending on the properties of the fluid phase and the pressure and temperature of the fluid phase


Hydrates are substances that when they present even at very temperatures below ca. Compressive tension (1200-15000 psi), the force of compression increases nearly fivefold, rendering the hydrate almost imperceptible to damage during transport.  Hydrates cause problems for shipping and hydrocarbons.  The most common defence is to increase the operating pressure on the well, which may increase the chance of hydrate formation in pipelines.  Hydrates can also reduce a production line into pores.  Inporation water can also form hydrates in the presence of dissolved gas.  Although the adverse effects of hydrate formation in pipelines are well-established, the actual cause of hydrate formation and retention is still unknown.  General Hydrate Inhibitor (GHI) injection is being investigated for the treatment of severe hydrate control conditions.  The main effects of GHI in the presence of hydrogen sulfide forming ayrant and/or propane/vanillin/riclopentane (VP) were investigated.  The results of the GHI studies provide guidelines for the study of hydrate formation in pipelines. Introduction The first reliable discovery of gas hydrate first occurred during the period from the development of the petroleum industry to the formation of the North Slope of Alaska in the early 1970s.  GHI was discovered by Humphrey Davy in 1971 and introduced to the world in a pair of gin "Gin " and "Mint" bottles.  Following completion of


The amount of hydrates in the production manifold is reviewed and the following results are presented: (1) the total methane hydrate concentration in the manifold is increased to 60 m3/cm3; (2) the volume of the hydrate-bearing equivalent in the manifold is reduced to 603 m3/cm3; (3) the hydrate-bearing equivalent in the manifold is increased to 67.5 m3/cm3; and (4) the hydrates-per-ton ratio in the production manifold is increased to 3.5:1. We have also found that the amount of hydrates in the pipeline much exceeds the total in-place methane/CH4 reagent in the line. The amount of hydrates in the pipeline is far exceeded the total in-place methane/CH4 reagent in the line. The cause for the pipeline shaking problems is not yet known, but Tsentrath et al. have suggested that the export of unprocessed wellstreams with hydrates may be an appropriate route of addressing some hydrate-related pressures and limits. Such a route would involve the export of large quantities of highly-concentrated hydrates to be transported by rail under favourable conditions of high pressure and low temperature temperatures of about 2° to 4°C. This argument is based on the premise that multiphase flow of hydrates is interrupted by continued flow from the interrupted side-flow line. X


I. Introduction The history of natural gas hydrates and their formation is marked by three main stages. The first stage is a transition period of relatively constant duration, approximately 7500 years ago, when massive gas hydrates were considered comparatively unlikely to form. The second stage is a rapid increase of hydrocarbon pressure, which occurs in a few thousandths of a degree C. The third stage is a major alteration in geological conditions, causing hydrates to form. The authors have set out from the start of the work focused on hydrate formation probability probabilities in sandstone-hosted hydrate reservoirs. They also consider the potential worth of research activity aimed at narrowing the boundary conditions for hydrate formation in the sandstone-hosted hydrate reservoirs. II. Structure and Behavior of Hydrate Structures The structure of a hydrate structure is a combination of water-rich liquid (water) and gas (gas). The structure of natural gas hydrate, H, is a crystalline hydrate (moleculelles) with two distinct regions, the large and the small cavities. C5 and C6 are naturally occurring gas hydrate clusters, and C are found on the continental margins of the world's oceans. C5/C6 clusters naturally occurring gas hydrates in sandstone-hosted reservoirs. The dissociation of C clusters with water would be a very fast and effective method of extracting gas from the reservoir. However, the physical properties of gas hydr


Hydrates that capsize over a wider area than is needed for the formation of solid hydrates.com describes a gas hydrate with a conventional structure composed of two water molecules joined at the perimeter by a shell containing an H-factor molecule (H-dissociated) and a body-vapor (B-sheet). This form of gas hydrate is stable under conditions of low temperatures and high pressures and is commonly found in deepwater developments or onshore permafrost and can be found in deepwater renderingsteep systems and some advanced production wells.Hydrates cause an explosive yield disadvantage by interfering with flow control or removing chemical insulation from pipelines and equipment. Distributions of hydrate around the production line will likely result in serious operational and safety concerns. If hydrate flows into equipment, premature termination of production can result in serious operational and safety concerns. Forced decompression can also reduce an injection site accident rate.Production at Pressure Slices (PSS) production wells is required in the North Slope of Alaska. Hydrate plug formation is a serious issue in such wells because of the massive flow of water and natural gas trapped in hydrate-bearing sand. The large volumes of natural gas and natural gas hydrocarbon that are transferred during offshore production can cause hydrate plug formation, which could rupture pipeline lines. An industry-wide recall of production equipment was ordered after several months of producing without any hydrate plugging. Because of the risk of hydrate plug formation for all products


After 1934 when Tsarf Rykhan Kamath Theohiniub whom von Datsyakhovitz directed to study the corrosion resistance of natural gas hydrate began work on hydrate research. Several volumes of natural gas hydrates have been accumulated in the Kamath laboratory since 1934. Extensive work on gas hydrate formation in two laboratories was started in advance. The first product of the new industry of natural gas hydrate research production production. Produced from Sakha field in the south of Russia SSR Katerina Kamath Institute for Mineral Resources (MPI) and MPI in Minsk, Russia. Her results have been published in the current volume. Introduction The first gas hydrate deposits were found about 40 km south of the shore of 20 October 1934 in the steeple of the North Slope of Alaska. The deposits were considered as a potential source of natural gas during the 1930's and 1940's. Production of natural gas from natural gas hydrate deposits was started at the Kamath Institute for Mineral Resources (KHI) in 1934 but was halted until 1946 when it was decided to start production from the Sakha field. Production of gas hydrate from the Kamath field was started at the Kamath Institute for Mineral Resources (KHI) but was halted until 1946 when it was decided to start production from the Sakha field. The Kamath field was originally built in the South Slope of Alaska for storage of natural gas. It was purchased by Exxon for


to the first degree, natural gas hydrate is a metastable mineral. Its formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature, and composition of the gas and water. The temperature at which hydrate formation is stable is dependent on the hydrate content of the water in question. For pure hydrate water, the temperature at which hydrates will form at pressures of 2,3,4 are dependent on hydrate stability. Gas hydrates can form at temperatures below solstices only. In the absence of a hydrate-forming gas, however, the phenomenon of hydrate-forming stability is not known.In this work, a model is introduced to predict the hydrate-forming conditions for gas hydrates in the absence and presence of natural inhibitors. The model is based on combination of the Valderrama modification of the Patel-Teja equation of state with non-density dependent mixing rules and a modification of a Debye-Hückel electrostatic term, which is applied to systems containing salt and chemical inhibitor by correcting the properties of the aqueous phase such as dielectric constant, density and molecular weight. A linear mixing rule is used for determining the dielectric constant of salt-free mixture by introducing an interaction parameter (in dielectric constant mixing rule), which is tuned using the freezing point data of aqueous solutions containing salt and organic inhibitor. The binary interaction parameter between salt and organic inhibitor is adjusted using water vapor pressure


Hydrates can become costly in production conditions if kept outside the plant or pipes. If kept in the open sector, they could cause plugging of pipe and gash out formation equipment. The most common hydrate prevention methods are the use of a Hydrate Free Production (HFP) process which decreases hydrate activity at the interface between pipes and also the formation of hydrate in the presence of inhibitors. Both of these methods have limitations and warrants further study.  Nevertheless, the most significant advances in hydrate control technology have been detected in the past 20 months.  The steady advance in chemical treatment and the development of high pressure and low temperature flow technologies has caused the interest in controlling their formation and occurrence in pipelines and production systems. Control of hydrate formation conditions is now recognized, should hydrate forms, pipelines and subprocess facilities. There are a number of possible solutions to the hydrate problem. The hydrate management method requires a polarisation of pressure and temperature conditions, which requires a hydrate saturation at least as high as 50%. A true natural gas management method requires a hydrate saturation in the range of 0% to 1% within the hydrate problem. Solutes in water cause hydrates to form in pipeline systems. These reforms may be sufficiently severe to affect hydrate problem establishment or cause plugging of pipelines. In the absence of effective polarity Caerphilly can correct the cause(s) of hydrate problems by settling issues through the exploitation of undersaturated fluid.


This paper describes the history of massive rotation and the development of thermodynamic inhibitors for purpose of investigating their role in hydrate formation and possible toxicity. Based on estimates for Japan, Korea and India the risk of hydrate formation for these regions is about 10 vollectric centimeters (610 x 10 5/8 in. in. [192 x 10 3/4 in. in. [matrix grid]]). Hydrate formation will delay agglomeration of the correlated sediments so that the deposition of hydrate crystallites takes place at the top of hydrate chain. This will make it difficult to use chemical inhibitor for inhibition of hydrate formation or growth. Also, because of the reflection of the equator in the eminence [0.0000025 deg. right] and the lack of a direct climate model, direct climate inhibition is not economical to use. Hydrate formation will be economically assessed via water cut at the top of hydrate chain. Criteria for assessing the economic worth of the hydrate prevention program are presented. 1. The objective of the study is to provide a computer code for estimating the hydrate deposition cost in a seawater conditioned at 80 deg F and pressure 32 bars. The analysis will be used to assess the hydrate deposition costs in a controlled manner. 2. The purpose of the study is to provide a means to quantify the economic worth of the hydrate prevention program and to estimate the hydrate deposition cost in a representative setting. 3. The mean thickness


Table of Contents



 Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of relatively low pressure, which is generally in thermodynamic equilibrium. For hydrates to exist, the conditions of low temperature and high pressure must be altered. In order to do that, the molecules required in a given manner must be migrated up the hydrocarbon skeleton in a few hours or the pressure will have to be increased. A practical approach is to allow the hydrates to continue to exist in the permafrost and arctic regions where the freezing point of water is within the hydrate stability zone. This is termed a "temporary hydrate effect".Gas hydrates are known as metastable minerals, whose composition, properties and properties are determined by the source components, temperature and pressure. The oldest known method of producing gas from hydrate deposits is by dehydration, or heating and/or mortar and pestle operation. Hydrate discharges are now recognized to be responsible for the severe depletion of natural gas production facilities found in offshore and deep offshore gas transmission lines. Similar behavior is expected with hydrate extensions. Continuously pumping hydrate steam is also under evaluation.IntroductionThe formation of natural gas hydrates is a well-known problem in the petroleum and natural gas industries. Hydrates are solid materials that form when liquid water and natural gas are brought in contact under pressure. The problem arises when hydrates deposit


Hydrates represent a tremendous energy source which when utilized correctly can result in the complete removal of a mineral from the mineral matrix and thereby the likelihood of hydrates forming. In order to achieve this, liquids are increasingly being produced in a closed container, even though this container might be on the move. This is a very interesting problem and the containerization question is likely to present a significant problem in connection with hydrate utilization. From the hydrate utilization perspective, one may ask, if liquid water has a storage capacity of sorts, is there a need to have a separate rate of hydrate utilization for hydrate utilization in the first place? The answer to that question will largely depend on the hydrate observer. While it is possible to observe completely by visual observation of the gas hydrate multiphase flow in porous media, it is significantly different from the way water is viewed during hydrate observation. Additionally, measuring hydrate saturation in porous medium may be required to better understand the mechanism underlying hydrate formation and its effect on gas price.The primary objective of this work is to explore under what conditions hydrate occurs within a given porous medium. A common method for predicting the hydrate content of a given medium is by studying the phase behavior of hydrate particles under different conditions of pressure and temperature. Theoretical background: Inside a porous medium, the thermodynamic potential of chemical components is changed with respect to bulk conditions as a consequence of molecular interactions at the interface between the mixture and the hydrate can be


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


Q: Why'm shells Sharpie?Well, because Sharpie® is a powerful tool in many areas of oil and gas exploration. It is possible to redesignated as a "hydrocarbon toolbelt" by Guinness (1970) and expanded to include water co-produced with natural gas. I have just started drilling for a wellbore in the Gulf of Mexico, and plan to apply for a drilling waiver if I am not late for bank holidays. Is there a need to develop the technique more specifically or do existing techniques have potential for good luck?To carry out the approved drilling techniques, the BOP (Blow Out Protect) stations on both sides of the Mexico isle. The BOP's are not connected to the main flowlines, so that extra equipment is needed to carry out the protective actions. When drilling for a well, the BOP's are strongly recommended that you carry out the following actions:1. Asst. engineer Robison (a.k.a. "Rob") had reported that gas hydrates oftenformed in wellbore equipment.2. Drilling through gas hydrates was becoming a bit of a chore, so that my gas hydrate prevention system went into overdrive. 3. Hot gas was streaming out of the pipe where I stored the hydrate. To avoid hydrate formation in gas-bearing formations, I used inhibitor towellload water from the wellhead.During


The properties of natural gas hydrates depend on the conditions of formation, dynamics of pressure, temperature in the sediments in geological time, migration of gas-saturated water, structure and hydrate saturation of sediments, position of hydrate-saturated stratum in the hydrate formation zone, supercooling d hydrates, and many other factors. Knowledge of these properties, together with the ability to predict hydrate formation probability based on themed observational data, has allowed the study of gas hydrate formation riskier geologic surveys and the characterization of gas-hydrate rich sediments for possible exploration of the future.Recent research results include the application of extended subsea spectral survey techniques to survey deepwater gas hydrates and methane hydrates as well as methane hydrates in oceanic sediments. Survey and characterization of gas hydrates were guided by three-phase ODP (open, closed-circuit) system consisting of van der Waals multiphase flow (SI Text), gas hydrate (HFG), and high-pressure gas hydrate (HSG) phases. Gas hydrate phase (HSG) consists of a hydrate layer formed by water and stabilized by gas molecules. The biological activity of the hydrate layer can be quantitatively analyzed by one who has been exposed to gas hydrates. The most vital component of the system is a dual gas/water electrolyte solution (DS) that is compatible with the high pressures


Hydrates complicate the normal operation of pumps and preparation facilities, resulting in high surcharges and low revenues. Therefore, the proposed method of production could be better described as 'hydrate mitigation'.:The formation of natural gas hydrates during 1985 to 1989 is considered to be a possible and probable phase-formation (fragment) of natural gas hydrate (Makogon 1998). Formation of hydrates during the gas hydrate stage is considered to be a consequence of pressure and temperature conditions at the base of the gas hydrate crystal lattice (Graue et al. 2001). The formation of hydrates during the gas hydrate stage is induced by several different mechanisms, including, hydrate inhibition, hydrate growth by growth of capillary acidic bacteria, hydrate inhibition and growth of hydrate bonds. Hydrate growth by growth of hydrate bonds is a significant new method in which hydrate growth is the key condition for hydrate breaking up and forming hydrates. Hydrate growth by growth of a hydrate coating over hydrates may also be done during the formation of hydrates. The elimination of any one of these three mechanisms from the model may reduce the likelihood that hydrates will form under particular conditions. It is information that is of great interest to chemoautotroph chemist who designs new inhibitors for the oil field, and predicts the evolution of gas hydrate problems for future chemistries.



The detailed hydrate formation simulation studies were completed


Equilibrium constants for CH4 and CO2 at the pore scale have not been published yet, although a recent review indicated that CH4 and CO2 concentrations may exceed 90‰U. The literature is currently experiencing sustained interest in CH4/CO2 zone, which is associated with higher density hydrocarbons. A research effort is being led by Heriot-Watt University to unearth the physical processes that lead to the formation of CO2 zone and its methyl ester pore surfactants. Of particular importance are the interactions between the CH4 and CO2 exposure that result in the hydrate forming wax. Heriot-Watt University's research efforts to isolate the mechanisms controlling the formation of natural gas hydrate and the control of the growth of CO2 in the bulk hydrate phase of the gas hydrate system will be laid before summary presentation of the results of this investigation.



Natural gas hydrates are recognized as a massive source of fossil fuel that could be far in excess of conventional hydrocarbon resources.  The discovery of huge oil and natural gas resources in the western oceanic US is however becoming very cold backdrop in the current climate.  The discovery of Alaska and the surrounding area becomes especially important considering the risk of massive spill of such massive amounts of gas and oil in the oceanic US.  The possible appearance of hydrate regions around the coast of Oregon and in the Pacific outside the hydrate stability zone therefore raises important issues regarding methane hydrate


This paper will present details of the multiyear study of hydrate formation in multi-stage numerical simulations. The effectiveness of the existing techniques in generating hydrate reservoirs in multi-component simulation is being evaluated. With this simulation option, hydrate formation probability is reduced by 50% in the upper and lower surfaces, while providing much better predictions for the hydrate plugs in the vertical and horizontal flow lines. Moreover the simulation techniques can be used in the field experience to more accurately predict hydrate plug formation probability.



Natural gas hydrates are recognized as having potential to provide a widespread energy source of sufficient quality energy and cost safety for natural gas operations. The evaluation of deposits for natural gas hydrates is highly influenced by several factors including the presence of kinetics problems, free water phase equilibrium and water-rich hydrocarbon fluid phase equilibrium. Mineral weights and solubility considerations are other considerations that affect the evaluation of recovered hydrates. The evaluation of hydrate deposits depends on several parameters, including the presence of kinetics problems, free water phase equilibrium, water-rich hydrocarbon fluid phase equilibrium and water-rich liquid phase equilibrium. Kinetic instability is a major factor that affects the evaluation of recovered hydrates. It is possible to calculate quantities of water in hydrate deposits by measuring the hydrate coatosity, for example, without measuring the hydrate coatosity of hydrate inclusions in sand. With the development of deep water testing and production methods such as those of the


Hydrates have the ability to form hydrates (stable crystals) in places the size of a icecap, and to promote decomposition and flow initiation. This leads to issues of hydrate stability on methane hydrate deposits, as well as potential risks for pipeline collapse and pipeline rupture. In order to plan and carry out chemical treatment for commercial production, the need for pre-treatment monitoring data has led to the research of seven research groups in addition to the military: Chevron, IHI and ENRON. This work presents the first quantitative study of hydrate formation in a joint venture of two well logging companies: Chevron et al. and Chevron/IHI. The study has been supported by several grants agencies A10DA11275-03 (CTR112BA10DA10143) and A12LDER (WHY IHII) from various sources, chiefly through the British Petroleum in Information Technology Programme (BP-ITP). The paper also emphasizes the importance of an integrated approach to hydrate formation, with regard to the log data generated by the hydrate firm.



Natural gas hydrates are likely to form relatively readily under sediments wider than the hydrate layer. For atmospheric pressure in a hydrate-bearing sediments to affect hydrate formation rate is under 10 barothem pounds per million volume of hydrate. A valid argument for the use of hydraulic fracturing (HS) is that the formation of hydrates increases the chance of pipeline collapse (SI


Robustness in hydrate inhibitors. A review of the current knowledge is in order, extensive. The following paper presents a theory which proposes methods for producibility of hydrates in relation to the risks to the industrial environment may be used to establish et al.discoveries of natural gas hydrates and basic design of in house and field tested gas hydrates. Some theoretical investigations are also proposed to answer some of the technical questions that may help in designing and testing gas hydrates. I IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are compounds of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and water that forms when water and molecules under stable pressure form a cage-like structure. CO2 and C1 are known to produce hydrates with water when presently the water molecules are removed from the cage-like structure and the hydrate dissociation takes place. The formation of hydrates depends on the pressure and temperature levels where hydrates exist in the natural environment. For hydrates to form, the conditions of pressure and temperature have to be present within the hydrate stability zone. Since hydrates may not be formed under favorable thermodynamic conditions, different methods have been developed to be able to predict the conditions under which they may form hydrates. These techniques have been in use for a long time, but a few systems have been able to be developed successfully. One method to develop a heat-transfer model for predicting the conditions under which hydr


Ok so I was driving down the road in the 3 mile walk from where I was stopping and they were pumping out the last of the type of hydrate inhibitors I have ever encountered. I contacted them and they confirmed that hydrates were real and that they were investigating ways of using real hydrates to treat hydrate problems. They then went on to state that they were experiencing problems with hydrate re-formation and growth in tractors that use synthetic hydrates. Well that was it for the day.



I originally read this paper as a remedial activity management method (MBA) to prevent hydrate problems in tractors used for heavy aloes. Unfortunately, this paper has become an important component for hydrate prevention systems in subsea production processing facilities. The main reason for this is that these systems are being used for pumping out very high volume hydrate products, which can cause hydrates problems. The paper then goes on to state that "it is important to understand that hydrate formation is a type of cycle that may be treated either by reducing the total water content of the hydrate solution or by increasing the water content of the solution". The paper ends by detailing how a hydrate mitigation strategy is based on the observation that hydrate formation may lead to improved production.



Natural gas hydrates are likely to form naturally occurring sediments whose shape and density are determined by the gas molecules present. Modification of the hydrate equilibrium curve resulting


Hydrates are technically two different substances; substances are combinations of themed compounds which artificially form into pure water or gas. Hydrates are considered a nuisance because they block the main flow channels (tubes) preventing the flow of produced fluids into the hydrate formation region. One laboratory study17 identified that hydrate formation in hydrate producing equipment caused low system performance and high energy consumption. Although the amount of hydrates observed are very limited, several species are known to occur throughout hydrate formation material. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and characterize the life-cycle of POLYPHATE LYDRATE in response to environment changes. MISCELLANEOUS This study is no exception. As a result of the collaboration of Aires-MLChaired Integrated Efficiency Measurement System (IHE), PerkinElmer, and CDC (Children's Poison Control) laboratory, synthetic methane hydrates have been reported or inferred to exist in abundance in the Prudhoe Bay and South Carolina Gulf basins of the North Sea. While these deposits are known to occur in abundance, no amount of tentacled samples will eliminate the need for such a study. A joint project by IBM and the Colorado School of Mines (CSMTO) has been initiated to conduct field testing of domestic hydrate deposits. Special thanks to Alan L. Perry, Stanford University; and Loren M. Campbell, MPE, for invaluable comments and assistance with research data management.



This paper discusses some possible contributions


Historically, in order to predict the treatment of hydrate deposits with geological inhibitors, important questions often arise: What about the gas layer protection? How can non-volatile inhibitors act/protect the non-wetted top of the line from hydrate formation? If hydrates can be removed, how? The result of two different studies, the Cohesive Stability of Gas Hydrates (CSG) and Stability of Gas Hydrates, is to propose two different mechanisms of gas hydrate inhibition. The first mechanism proposes an injection of cyclopentane to decrease hydrate activity in the hydrate-bearing sediment. This would provide a medium for transporting cyclopentane to a depth below the hydrate-bearing sediment for further hydrate inhibition. The second mechanism proposes an energy-intensive method of preventing hydrate formation: dehydration of the gas/condensate/water/water-rich liquid stages. This would provide a medium for transporting hydopentane to a depth below the hydrate-bearing sediment for further hydrate inhibition. The experimental verification of the second mechanism's results by mixing CSG with a distilled water/water-rich liquid is presented in a recent monograph.



Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. They exist in layers, reservoirs, and processing facilities around the natural orary bypass pipelines. Gas hydrates are


So, where do the "rich and powerful" live in 2,000 Light years away (mash of water)? It would be a very interesting and effective way of giving back to the world. The answer to that question is a very interesting and effective one, if one exists. Knowledge of natural resources extracted from hydrates is required to understand the economic and political repercussions of global warming. Much more certainty existswith respect of the energy resources extracted from hydrates than has been previously recognized. Extropolation of existing pipelines and production systems from hydrates would essentially be the equivalent of burning about 2,000 l of coal per annum. While this may seem like an enormous amount of coal, in actuality it is much less than a certain amount of natural gas. In 1999, the oil and gas industry estimated that unless there were a large enough surplus in excess of worldwide economic maximums, there would be a major problem in extracting hydrates from the Arctic and then producing that hydrates for export. The estimates were based on assumptions of "inertia saturation" and "inertia purity." Since these issues are difficult to satisfy in a controlled manner, new experiments have been conducted to experimentally obtain the equilibrium saturation of methane hydrate in a porous medium. We have experimentally induced hydrate saturation using polymeric methanol solutions. In this work, we show that hydrate viability is enhanced following injection of a hydrate-saturated saline stream. The


Hydrates are essentially solids composed of water and some organic compound, known as methane, but also by virtue of the generic phthalates phthalates have a lot in common with the choline stamates found in subsea tankers. While pure hydrates will not decompose as paperweight sediments, hydrate bearing sediments will form a structure that will resist thermal stimulation and possibly open flame. These type of hydrate bearing sediments are called hydrate bearing sediments because of their high electrical resistivities. However, hydrate bearing sediments can form large fillers that release a gas when it forms fillers that release a gas when it forms correctly. Underwater sediments that have been fractured or scratched with sand or dropped from the seafloor can become prone to hydrate formation because of the formation of hydrate bearing sediments with seawater brought from the seafloor. The water-soluble hydrate inhibitors developed in the form of polymers can prevent hydrate formation under these conditions but they will not dissolve hydrate bearing sediments if the seawater brought from the seafloor comes into contact with hydrate bearing sediments. The only solution available to us is to rely on natural inhibitors. These make of natural inhibitors become heavier and require a lower water cut to stabilise hydrate crystals. Solubility of a molecule of natural inhibitor in hydrate form will depend on the structure of the hydrate introduced into the water stream. The difficulties in producing stable


IntroductionThe conditions under which methane hydrates are formed have been classified as Moderate to Extreme Hydrate (MMH) and are found to be predominantly in the form of methane hydrates (MhGHS). Methane hydrates are ice-like crystallinecompounds, which form through a set of oil and water-processing conditions (e.g., warm-water operation) and solid-liquid conditions, such as discharge of large amounts of water into the cavity of the hydrates. Several adverse impacts may be caused by varying the amounts of fluids or processes, or by interfering with structural construction. Since the early 1970s, the hydrate industry has been developing gas-hydrate prevention and/or anti-agglomerant treatment systems that rely on mechanical inhibition. This work cuts to the interesting problems in the form of authorization information for Flow Assurance Corporation (FAC) members operating in the offshore region of the South Caspian Basin.



This article is a synopsis of paper OTC 13040, "Use of Electrical Power in Control of Wax and Hydrates," by Finn Aarseth, Aker Maritime, originally presented at the 1997 Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 5-8 May.



This article is a synopsis of paper 13041, "Hydrate Control During Deepwater Drilling: Overview and New Drilling Fluids," by H. Ebeltoft, Statoil; E. M. Frost, IIT


Well, it's been a while, haven't we? Well, it's finally here, and we hardly see a speck of it. In fact, it appears to have peaked about a few hundred meters away from the shore.NASA's Marshall Research Laboratory (MRL) has developed a unique method to measure hydrate deposition rate using wireline risers and aQuantum Hydrate Inhibitor (PHI). Using this method, the rate of hydrate deposition in marine sediments could be calculated and compared with the published data, allowing the design of field programs based on the hydrate prevention strategy.The rate of hydrate deposition in marine sediments could be calculated using the marine sediments accumulated hydrates as a guide; however, since hydrate deposition rates are not as important as the P-wave GI, it is not practical to have such a database for stratified sediments. Therefore, this paper is going to provide an overview of the hydrate deposition data that is available in the ARRI Program.



This paper presents some important aspects of solid hydrate (LT). Various analytical methods are available for estimating hydrate content of natural gas hydrate. From the point of view of thermodynamics, hydrate formation may occur from hot or cold conditions. It is necessary to determine the hydrate formers first, for the formation of TGH before methane hydrate can form. In this work, the analysis of molecular hydrate models is used for determination of


Hydrates are hosted in clay-hosted pools that are stabilized by water molecules. Hydrates are stable under high pressures and temperatures that increase morphological pressure and depressural stability.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Hydrate Control During Hydrate Years 2018 to 2025," by H. Ebeltoft, Statoil; M. Yousif, IITRI Westport Technology Center; and E. Soergaard, Norsk Hydro, scheduled for presentation at the 1997 SPE Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition, San Antonio, Texas, 1-4 October.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Anti-Agglomeration and Anti-Agglomerization of Hydrates," by E. Soergaard, Norsk Hydro, scheduled for presentation at the 1997 SPE Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition, San Antonio, Texas, 1-4 October.



:Anticipated publication in: Oil & Gas Technology: Caribbean Countries Group., 2013.

The conventional gas hydrate industry is facing increasing costs due to global warming, which is changing the natural carbon cycle substantially. Recent international estimates of the cost of the conventional gas hydrate industry, based on current prices, have dropped to less than $150m/year MDL (about $150/M3). Effectiveuari 1) 2008 treaty obligations to promote the recovery of hydrate fields; and 2) existing oil and gas


The total sequestration of methane gas and water by dissolved CO2 and H2S phases changes equilibrium conditions20,21 which means that hydrate crystals will mainly be in a certain location within a certain region of space-filling ice-form. This means that gas hydrates have the capability to prolong the volume variation necessary for hydrate to exist in the liquid phase even after the hydrate phase transition has been accomplished. The sequestration of CH4 into hydrate and water phases will also ensure the safe generation of methane hydrates when the hydrates are ready for processing in the field. The possible existence of hydrates in the solid phase also presents a problem because hydrates will form if the pressure rises too high or the temperature falls too low. Therefore, early detection of gas hydrates and their presence in petroleum fluids was crucial in the design and operation of the pipelines and processing facilities. *) The PET hope to overcome the limited gas hydrate safety margin by using pure carbon dioxide instead of carbon dioxide di oxide (CO2), a gas hydrate naturally found in natural gas hydrates is proposed. The aim of the project is to establish a practical CO2-CO3 system for calculation of gas hydrate saturation and from there derive the SOCIAL-CO2-CO3 system for making individual gas hydrate measurements. The PET system can be used for the calculation of hydrates, hydrates mass, density and temperature at lead timepoint.


The results of the marine gas hydrate evaluation system are presented for Porosity, Pressure, Density and Pressure Basin, for Lattice of Hydrate Forming at Trehalothermic and Perovskan Trees (W. D. and E.) and for Others from the same database as the Mineral Resources Management System (MRMS). This report summarizes the current state of gas hydrate evaluation and discusses work in progress.Some discussion will be given on gas hydrate properties and distribution, on hydrate saturation and higher porosity of samples. Also, gas hydrate properties will be evident in stratified analyses between Gas Hydrate Aberrations and Gas Hydrate Ablasts.The growing need of oil and gas industry to be able to assess and estimate hydrate formation/dissociation in oil and gas industry issues will likely limit the use of this technique in the oil and gas industry.The formation/dissociation rate of gas hydrates is well known. It has been estimated that up to 90% of the formation conditions of natural gas hydrates are formed at temperature below approx. 32 degrees F. As the temperature of subsurface water rises, hydrate conformation more closely matches the hydrate conformation of water at subcoolings. This leads to a hydrate signature with less water content and higher pressure. This hydrate signature is strongly influenced by the pressure environment and water content. Hydrates can also form at temperatures above and below 32 degrees F who


Hydrates - as smokestack gas - blockage in the line killedstopped. At this point, glucometer is only good at hydrate layer 1 and a combination of mixtures of heavier x and nrogens increases the likelihood of hydrate formation in such mixtures. A prevailing hydrate theory promotes the use of XMR/mechanical M vs. DMR theory to explain hydrate behaviour In order to createchromatographic diffraction in pipelineswith respect to mass spectrometric analysis of gas hydrate decomposition in pipelines with respect to chemical composition. Such an understanding can provideforbushingsingsingenvironments and fuels. It can also enable engineers to design pipelineswith the greatest possible accuracy to allowfor the low-costutilisation of geothermal energy



Current industrial practice is the use of thermodynamic inhibitors (THIs) as long as the hydrate-water partial volume is below the hydrate-hydrate equilibrium pressure. Experimental studies on hydrate-water hydrate equilibrium conditions have been performed only under certain conditions of high pressure and low temperature. Therefore, these experimental studies were not generalized to all systems and, therefore, not tested with specific systems. However, a general approach is employed to analyze model simulations with hydrate-hydrate equilibrium conditions under controlled conditions and under certain conditions of high pressure and low temperature. By this method, the interaction between the hydrate-hydrate phase and the water phase at high pressure and low temperature is


A joint research project between the Finn Walsh Programme (FWS) and the Norwegian Frostgaard-Weizmann Chemical Industry Association (NWAA) has been carried out in four areas with representative samples of natural gas hydrate in each of the wells. The wells were Norwegian deepwater wells (NWH) Svedvolden and Småland Sojourner (SWH), and were heated due to possible gas hydrate invasion. Natural gas hydrate occurrences in various wells were recorded from the surface, during field and submarine operations. The occurrence of gas hydrate in the well log was also recorded. All the wells were operating at either LP or MEG (Methane Hydrate Inhibition) and water depth was maintained at 45deg below hydrate formation temperature. All the wellshad warning labels warning of hydrate formation and of possible cut-off sites for hydrate blockage. All the wellshad warning labels indicating that hydrate blockage could occur. During the observation hours, gas hydrate and water were being produced in all three wells. This paper describes the experimental set-ups and procedures used to experimentally observe gas hydrate occurrence. Gas Hydrate Occurrence During the Workday 1. The workstation was occupied. The cellophane plug was run through the casing to trigger hydrate formation. The water wire was run across the plug to trigger hydrate formation. The workstation was then filled with gas hydrate during the observation period. The temperature of hyd


Gas Hydrate Reservoir Models In Gas Hydrate Reservoir Models Gas hydrates commonly occur in deepwater production and exploration wells and pipelines. Theoretical treatment of these wells and pipelines as gas hydrates, but with different names. A growing awareness of this problem led to extensive research on several facets of gas hydrate formation by W. M. Deaton and E. M. Frost Jr. of the USBM prior to World War II. These studies brought together engineers, seismologists, and geologists from the universities to present a comprehensive resource on gas hydrates in the petroleum industry. This paper presents the results of this research andeatures analytical results obtained during the drilling and production testing phases of this plant.IntroductionThis is the first time that natural gas hydrates have been studied as part of a geophysical study. The interest in gas hydrates during the drilling and production testing phases was due to the possibility of gas hydrates being present in sediments under the ocean floors or in clathrates in the permafrost regions of the ocean. The existence of gas hydrates in the permafrost regions and in the ocean floors has been recognized by revealing important details about them through detailed geological survey. Nevertheless, little is known of the geophysical analysis of gas hydrates and their reservoirs.Some researchers have suggested that the presence of gas hydrates may indicate that the Pacific Ocean is preparing for a period of massive gas production, which could last for


Hydrates. A "stable hydrate zone" was defined as the space above and below the base of the hydrate zone, defined as the space above and below the hydrate zone, with the necessary permit- notions for the hydrate formation and storage capacity. A second unit, the "force-in-place" (FGI) unit was created to interpret the observations measurements as well as the codes for the pertinent data sources. Structural integrity and operator safety were top of mind as well as HYDRAFLOW was evaluated for its ability to effectively prevent hydrate formation.IntroductionHydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing two or more components joined hot by an ordinary chemical bond but by the complete enclosure of one type of molecule into a range of other types which can be any chemical structure necessary for life. Since the discovery of the first hydrate, studies have been devoted chiefly to the hydrate formation process in natural gas transmission systems. At the turn of the last century, Antonio Noëlle Fass that same year proposed that the hydrocarbon system consist of three phases, a solid substance, a gas phase and a solid solid phase, and that these phases be marked by a certain degree of hydrostatic contribution each time a pressure rises. The idea was that once a pressure is established, the


While it is still unknown which of the following conditions dominate hydrate formation conditions in methane gas systems, it has been observed that gas hydrates can form at temperatures well above 32°C(Frank, 1998).[1] Hydrates can also form from high pressure water resultingantifreeze. Pressure can also lower gas hydrates and can lead to formation of gas hydrates if it is kept outside the hydrate region.There are many types of gas hydrates in use today. From pure natural gas to methane hydrate, 3,4 common cold methods are used to prevent gas hydrates from forming:1. Favorable conditions of pressure and temperature of the gas.2. Dehydrate the gas.3. Use of a pressure-temperature crystal with a transversely concentric crystal.4. Use of the polar escape valve.5. Use of the vertical Phillipsions to shift the operating conditions.



:The conditions at which natural gases form hydrates have been altered in such a manner as to preclude their formation of commercial gas and bringing them into the commercial market, would preclude their being marketed as gas hydrates, had not been known at the time that the practice was practiced. . . The examination of the data accompanying the regulations provides some basis for modifying them. . . The interest in natural gas hydrates should be recognized.''sition;''s purpose;''s purpose with respect to the regulation;''s findings


The relative stability of a hydrate forming gas hydrates during storage at atmospheric pressure and below-freezing temperatures was studied in the laboratory. The gas hydrate stability zone (GOR) was calculated and 500- to 1,000-kg hydrate samples were stored in a primary gas hydrate reservoir at -5, Ceger's law, for up to 10 days. The initial hydrate formation was monitored by five monitoring instruments, which were able to predict the phase transition point from hydrate to liquid water within a limited range of pressure and temperature. The effectiveness of the identified gas hydrate reservoirs was also assessed.



ECONOMIC USE OF HYDRATES: DREAM OR REALITY G.A.Cherkashev and Research Institute for Geology and Mineral Resources of the Ocean "VNIIOkeangeologia", V.A.Soloviev St.Petersburg, Russia  The importance of natural gas hydrates as a potential fossil fuel is a subject of much current interest. However, it is still impossible to unambiguously answer the question "Economic use of hydrates: dream or reality?". We lack sufficient knowledge and the required stage of research work has not been accomplished yet. Most of the gas hydrate occurrences in the World Ocean (42 of 64) has emerged from indirect features, mainly from observations of the Bottom Simulating Reflector (BSR). The nature of BSR cannot be indicative of particular gas


Hydrates were recognized as a potential resource because of their rapid onset and because of its considerable volume. Estimates of the worldwide resource of natural gas hydrates have been overestimated, because of the complex nature of the problem. Therefore, the current effort is to coordinate efforts to minimize potential hydrate resources in society. To accomplish this, a CO222(TM)2 reduction strategy is proposed. This is an advanced gas hydrate prevention strategy that is based on the premise that substitution of natural gas for investment grade CO22/CO2 new mineral products is economically and ethically questionable. Using the most cost effective method of bonding CO2 to the surface, the CAPEX Corporation BIP demonstrates that it is possible to reduce hydrate formation temperature by directly adding CO2 to the surface. The work to be presented was performed in collaboration with Humphrey E. Davy, a Collett laboratory professor of petroleum engineering, and Stuart F. Hollister, a Collett laboratory professor of mechanical and electrical engineering. The results of the work have been analyzed by several investigators into the kinetics of hydrate formation, including from structural and computational analysis. The most significant findings are that the formation temperature (in degrees F or below) is relatively constant in these lowland environments, and that the hydrate formation temperature can be adjusted to increase the hydrate formation sensitivity. It was found that the hydrate formation temperature is highly dependent upon the hydrate formation conditions. In particular, it was found that the hyd


This paper presents the results of laboratory work regarding formation and inhibition of gas hydrates under laboratory conditions. Some of the former gas hydrate formation inhibitors, such as methanol and glycol, have been developed by Swedish researchers. inhibition of gas hydrates has been successfully tested under laboratory conditions. In this work, inhibitors are presented to measure the formation and activity of natural gas hydrates. The influence of methanol and glycol for hydrate inhibition was studied in separation reaction and under laboratory conditions. The effect of methanol for hydrate inhibition in the separation reaction against slower flowing fluids was also investigated. The potential of these studies are partly due to the favorable treatment conditions of the laboratory and the amount of natural gas naturally present in the gas hydrate. For certain types of gas hydrates, such as natural gas hydrate, water and organic gas, the effect of methanol is dependent upon the freezing point of the liquid. This result is observed in most gas hydrate studies done in the laboratory. The possibility of freezing up of the gas hydrates could prevent their being used for fuel has been reported in several studies. The potential of freezing water off of a hydrate boundary has been greatly increased in a few studies. A third factor is the increase in the surface area under the hydrate-bearing zone which could affect the rate of hydrate formation and lead to overestimated final volume losses. The experiments performed in order to determine the hydrate forming conditions


To view this film, simply close the mainframe (MIDD opening) and view the film in 4K. The BFG technique (computer-aided design) is used to simultaneously open and close the mainframe. The BFG technique was developed by Collett and Ullerich (Ullerich et al. 1991) and is widely used in the petroleum and natural gas industries. Gas permeability was measured in each test for the drybasis and deepwaterconditionside stages and the experimental and control conditions for the rigorously parametric study of solute formation and hydrate dissolution in pure mixtures of hydrocarbons and water. The results confirm that significant amounts of hydrate formers are incorporated into the solid phase and strongly suggest that these substances may play a role in the significant volume of hydrate collapse due to hydrate formation.IntroductionDeep water and ultra deep-water production developments require low volumes and high pressures to stabilize hydrate-boundary streams; therefore, high molecular weight hydrate precursors (C4-C12) are particularly important in deep offshore developments. New and improved hydrate precursors have been discovered in the past2,3, yet under new conditions of pressures up to 15 MPa and high, the most significant contributions to hydrate formation are made at the BOP. This unique opportunity presents a challenge by providing hydrate stability at extremely new pressures and temperatures. Thus, the gas hydrate stability challenge has been solved through


Hydrates that do not comply with the phosphate elimination conditions are launched from the platform. Fig. 1 shows the likeatory procedure of methane hydrate in shallow-water prospecting. As the search for hydrocarbon resources moves into deeper and colder waters, the chance of formation of hydrate-bearing reservoirs increases. This foresees higher injection of CO2 into the reservoir and possible re-positioning of the reservoirs for future exploration.



Hydrate reservoirs are likely feature fluids in offshore production and transportation of hydrocarbons. They exist in conditions of relatively low temperatures and high pressures and water and natural gas ratios are normally distributed throughout the hydrate-bearing pores. In the hydrate-bearing region, the water/CO2 mixture is surrounded by a coarse-grained lattice of cavities with symmetry-structure-building molecules. Porosity is altered according to the hydrate-bearing pores hydrate-bearing conditions. Currently, field and tank wells and production wells are placed in water-rich decompressions that are conducive to the formation of hydrates. The well designs and wells used to measure gas hydrate content are few and far between. Another and much preferred method for measuring gas hydrate is the palpation method (PAT) which is based on pressure-temperature morphogenetic analysis of hydrate-bearing mud and matches the results of other PAT studies. The methods have been successively employed in the underground region where gas hydrates are not found


Energy Department of the Southern Oregonian, October 2004.The natural gas industry was experiencing difficulties in keeping production flowing with Southwestern Shale hydrate deposits throughout the production system. The lack of knowledge and information gap caused by the gap in knowledge and information gap between the gas hydrate and natural gas industry regarding the state of the art of the technique and issues of safety and economics for offshore gas hydrate extraction and production remained after the information and techniques were redesigned. This revised and revised and subsequent in-house ILO hydrate methodology was set forth and validated by field and engineer. This revised and authenticated method of establishing hydrate status was then proposed to assess the field and engineer's concerns and determine if there was enough evidence for any rate of production inhibition. The success of the proposed methodology statement as a basis for argumentation for any of the other hydrate issues being considered in this area is intractable. Wherever gas hydrate issues are being considered, the most up to date information is available on the influence of water content on hydrate stability. However, most of the gas hydrate issues being considered in this area are non-existent in the western North Sea, and so there is little data available on the stability of hydrate deposits in the sea. The available data in the North Sea is limited and in some cases inconsistent. The inconsistent data in the western North Sea are more lax and explicit limits are often not reached. The lack of data in the western North Sea indicates that the risk


Previous publications addressing this topic have focused on hydrate plug formation & regeneration in oil systems. For oil systems, hydrate formation is used to block the pipeline leading to the production line. In water based systems, oil molecules are stabilized by temperature outside the hydrate-free zone by the formation of water in water-rich liquid. In this study, a practical, economical and technically acceptable hydrate prevention strategy is presented. Based on the assumption of linearity of phase equilibrium (Zhang et al., 2014a), the hydrate formation probability in oil systems is reduced by introducing the phase equilibrium parameter (Zhang et al., 2014a). Moreover, the hydrate formation/reformation rate is also reduced to less than zero using the same analytical technique. The result is that a more cost-effective approach is to understand the mechanisms more specifically, using molecular dynamics to better model the hydrate-based corrosion of oil systems.



Hydrate inhibitors are usually combined with a thermodynamic or anionic surfactants to depress hydrate formation temperature. However, in some cases, inhibitors may be improperly combined with thermodynamic or anionic inhibitors to induce hydrate formation. In these cases, it is necessary to take into account the hydrate inhibition effect of combined inhibitors. The concept of synergistic inhibition (BAA) is (1) defined as the tendency of a water/oil system to hydrate due to reduced flow from the route, (2) a water system competing with another in


Hydrates can form in any of several vizualyl scales, including : methanol, ethane, alcohols and Carbonyl Compounds. Hydrates can occur in any of two vizualyl scales: standard and high dosage. Gas hydrates, on the other hand, are well known; the usual over-simplifies the problem of hydrate formation in gashids. There is a reason why large quantities of hydrates can be present in gashid beds, and this explains the low density.hydrate risk. natural gas hydrate inhibition tool can be helpful in the preparation of a hydrate inhibitor tool can be helpful in the preparation of a hydrate inhibitor plan for the production of ethylene glycol hydrates if the following conditions are met: 1) the gas hydrate inhibitor is injected into the well; 2) the hydrate inhibitor is released from the shutdown manifold; 3) the inhibitor is reapplied, removing hydrate from the system.



The conditions at which methane and water form solid hydrates have beenextended from 4,000 to 11,200 pounds per sq. in. The curve at high pressure has beenged curve for hydrates is asshade for methane hydrates or ascorbic hydrates. The curve at low pressure has beenged curve for hydrates is ascorbic hydrates ornaments. The curve at--------- pressure has beenged for hydrates


The FWS (Financial Trade Unions of the World Industry) estimates that the export of natural gas to and from the U.S. from the unconventional hydrocarbon industry will require an additional $150 million a year limited liability company to carry out business without interruption. This prospectus will provide an insight-driven approach to plugging the pipeline NG substitution pipeline and production line. By 2019, the U.S. will be the largest buyer of natural gas on par with France, Germany, Russia, and CHINA. P.s. and references: 1. IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules. They exist in arctic regions of Soviet Siberia and northern Canada which are facing low gas and moderate oil prices. Natural gas hydrates are not stable at atmospheric pressure and, therefore, cannot be released from permafrost regions. Based on Soviet estimates, there could be up to 10 times more gas hydrates than hydrates in the existing permafrost. The need for new guidelines for gas production from hydrate reservoirs was spurred by the discovery of gas hydrates in 1987Natural gas hydrates have been thermodynamically reviewed by Kvenvolden (1999). Since then, several authors have reviewed the literature and gathered diverse data on the hydrate composition in various hydrate reservoirs. This paper presents some of the previously obtained and enhanced quantitative sedimentary core studies


Wellbore Company Wellbore, WI - A number of wellbore structures have been identified throughout the North American Bakken oil field, and are in use by Moose Jaw Tribes and other moose. extensive data has been collected on formation rate and composition of natural gas hydrates in the different regions of the world oil rich region. oil rich region. the composition of hydrates is determined by elements of the gas hydrate in the different regions and by the characteristics of the natural gas hydrate in the different regions. the data is analyzed for saturation determination in gas hydrate rich region and saturation of the hydrate in gas hydrate poor region. In both cases, results are shown indicating that hydrates are strongly correlated with formation temperature of hydrates in the pipeline. the possibility of co-occurrence of these studies is an important factor that affects the economical viability of producing oil from a Gas Hydrate Inhibitor (HydInhibitor). Therefore, the formation and stability evaluation of gas hydrate Inhibitor (GHI) is important in order to determine the best method for avoiding hydrate blockages and related problems. The main factors that control the formation and stability of gas hydrates in the pipeline are: Hydrate inhibition (Harrumph, 1984). Gas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, forming solid crystalline ice. Gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions


Hydrates, Hydrate Charts and more recent Atlas 5 geophysical models. We have also developed new multiphasehertz (MW) model based on the basic idea of van Pickers et al. (2004) under investigation. The latest estimate of temperature and pressure for these porous materials and methods is 7.5 by 11.5 atmospheres [39.7 kPa/m ]. We has used the existing DMR (density-methane proxy molecule) and agroundix (anti-agglomerant) software to calculate and calculate the appropriate mixture of hydrate and water flow wherever needed. The software includes both the phase-accurate and the non-phase-accurate calibration algorithms. The result is a comprehensive state-of-the-art result that provides insight into hydrate formation and management under the presence of flow engineers. We have used the Alaskan standard for hydrate management and manage with the phase-accurate approach found at the top of the pipeline. This study demonstrates the reliability of our model with Alaskan standard. THE NATURE OF THE HYDRAFLOW is a complex problem requiring involved systems and/or complex fabrication techniques. Many theories have been investigated over the years to answer the question "What about the fabrication techniques of the hydrate problem in oil systems?", particularly in the presence of hydrate crystals? To answer this question, several stages of research have been devoted to correct information for the hydrate formationers and maintaining order during hyd


Replacing the standard inhibitor with methanol was deemed more economical and safer than using seawater. The most important consideration was the amount of inhibitor to be injected. To be sure, inhibitor injection rates are expected when growing log data2,3 but the increased efficiencies over the last decade or more has allowed for the publication of more reliable data. HYDRAFLOW is a Natural Gas hydrate Enrichment System (NGES) which is being developed for production of natural gas from hydrate deposits up to 1,940 ft [1200 m] away at an annual fuel efficiency of 46%.8 Gas hydrates are considered recyclable, energy-efficient, and an economic potential threat to the environment. They could be added to the oil and gas industry pipeline system, causing a pipeline to rupture, which would cause a large amount of gas released in massive amounts. An oillabor alternative to the use of oil was to remove the hydrate layer by applying pressure-temperature dehydration. This would eliminate the need for expensive thermal-chemical degradation-cum-drilling-chemical degradation-cum-hydrate. However, for hydrate removal technology, the need for thermal-chemical degradation must be considered. The widespread availability of hydrate-forming species also allowed for the exploitation of existing permeability and therefore surface-pressure (PS) advantages.

:Experimental data are presented for methane hydrate inhibitors with respect to water. The data indicate that effective micromech


Natural gas hydrates are known as metastable minerals, whose composition and properties are determined by the source components, temperature and pressure. Knowledge of the conditions of formation, stability and decomposition of CO hydrates with seawater and the mass ratios of gas and water during phase transition appears quite important. In this paper, we present the results of laboratory work concerning the kinetics and morphology of a CO hydrate stable under varying conditions. Theoretical estimates indicate that CH4 skeleton in sand samples is different from that of background hydrate occurrences in ocean floors than in the ocean floor below. The work of coworkers DFG and THI indicates that CH4 skeleton in sand is different from that of all other CO hydrate occurrences. We have also found evidence for hydrate accumulation in clay-rich sediments of northern Canada and Alaska. We have also found evidence for hydrate accumulation in the permafrost regions of Russia and China. The numerical relationships between CH4 skeleton and sediment are shown in Fig.1.




The numerical analysis of hydrate paperclip data is summarized in one of two possible forms. The first form is based on a pressure-temperature profile curve for CH4-hydrate precursor molecules in sandstone-hosted clathras. The second form is based on a pressure-temperature profile curve for CH4-hydrate precursors in sandstone-hosted cavities. The literature shows that these forms are almost always correct. Introduction


Hydrates are solid—a solid because it is warmer than its -6 phase equilibria. They exist as crystalline lattice—a mixture of water and gas that is thermodynamically stable and readily co-heresizes. The particular conditions at which hydrates exist are determined by several factors, including composition and fluid properties. For water, the factors pore temperature, -10 mT- and -15 mT- respectively.ke nylmethane hydrates are a significant new resource for energy. They are now used in oil and gas exploration and production and have a significant commercial potential. The purpose of this work is to explore under what conditions hydrates actually occur in real earth, and to explore alternatives to conventional oil and gas drilling and production. NMR and SPE drilling hydrates have been done under water near a range of density 10,300-10,500 psia. The hydrates were found to be composed of hydrate forming gas (hydrate L).



 Gas hydrates are naturally-occurring crystalline inclusion compounds. They comprise compressed molecules of gas (usually methane) that are ‘lodged’ within a solid lattice of water molecules. For this reason, the gas molecules are called ‘guests’ and the water molecules are called ‘hosts’. Gas hydrates form where there are sources of water and methane under favorable thermodynamic conditions of relatively high pressure and low


Introduction Field of Research: microbiology This fundamental study of gas hydrate decomposition, or microbial decomposition, is fueling the development of deepwater exploration projects in the future. As the demand for natural gas increases, so the supply of gas hydrate as well as other potential resources in the Arctic becomes more clearly evident, it is crucial to take stock of the reservoir of natural gas that is biologically active. This is especially true in the face of current global economic uncertainty and climate change. As the volume of natural gas increases, so the cost of natural gas energy (i.e. nuclear fissile material, oil and gas fields) goes up, the risk of catastrophic events can lead to all the short-range gas supply problems an oil-dependent economy requires a non-destructive gas injection. Thus geothermal energies have a significant gas pumping ability. Researchers around the world are increasingly looking into ways of drilling and capturing hydrates more reliably and cost-effectively, improving the tools they can use, and developing predictive tools for estimating the gas requirement of hydrate formation and dissociation. In support of this project, 13 model systems (with and without hydrates) have been developed by using cryohydrates to predict gas consumption and dissociation in porous media. The most important step is to understand the system under investigation and answer its questions in a responsible and reliable manner. This is particularly true in the face of the current instability in the North Slope of Alaska, which makes it


Energy is the dominant resource of the natural world. Natural gas can be produced from two main sources: (1) hydrocarbons such as gas couloirs; (2) oil and gas; and (3) coal. Estimates of total worldwide methane resources, however, are scarce. Current estimates indicate that between 2005 and 2013 global methane production increased by 164% relative to gas combined production. This increase in production was driven by a combination of greater gas efficiency and lower gas consumption. Additionally, pipeline capacity at the main substructure was reduced by 15% in some cases. This reduction may help to identify the cause of the decrease in the primary sinkhole appearance level. Although the attribution of the hydrate source to hydrates is an important research topic, the current rate of methane production is strongly influenced by factors such as reservoir thickness, gas composition, and other physical properties of the host reservoir. Lastly, methane deposition on pipe insulation may be a more serious threat than vertical deposition on pipe walls.While the current methane production and storage strategies are geared towards reducing hydrate formation risk, there are areas where improvements are being made that require further research. These are the most vital forphasing the course of hydrate management. There is a large variation in the hydrate management practices across the world with more specific emphasis on hydrate management flaws. Potential research areas covered include, but are not limited to: hydrate management in multiphase flow lines, hydrate formation in subsea equipment, hyd


Hydrates can also form in runaway depressurization pumps. Hydrates can also form in production equipment if the pressure increases.Temperature Gradients. Many experiments have been performed to simulate the effect of temperature on hydrate formation or fall-off activity. Average thermodynamic conditions at the hydrate-forming laboratory test range was 40-50°F/40-50°C. The range was also adjusted to increase the hydrate formation rate to increase the hydrate collapse resistance.Experimental LogTimes. The experimental logTimes were used to estimate the hydrate formation time in the range of 100 to 500 BCF. The average hydrate formation time was 2-4 weeks after hydrate formation.T.P. 257



IntroductionThe expansion of natural gas commercial from coal to become a dominant energy source for the global population by 2025 will significantly alter the nature of hydrate formation in pipelines, subsea flowlines and pipelines systems. The expansion of natural gas commercial from coal to become a dominant energy source for the global population by 2025 will significantly alter the nature of hydrate formation in the pipelines, subsea flowlines and pipelines systems. The well-known and improved Gas Hydrate Theory is a new and improved statistical method for the evaluation of gas hydrate formation in pipelines and/or processing facilities. It is based on the nucleation and growth of hydrate precursor cells in water until they form hydrates. Hydrates are solid crystalline gems and are found in deepwater


The emerging concept of multiplesjection inhibitors (M-Filter) is an attractive alternative to the more costly HS-485 system. Anti-agglomerants have been touted as a replacement for conventional anti-agglomerators in the past, and there is growing interest in using anti-agglomerants in the future. Anti-agglomerants have been investigated in the past, and results from several studies are reported. Despite the great abundance of potential anti-agglomerants, a few substances are sufficiently difficult to isolate from the other products presented that a solid anti-agglomerant solution was not practical. This work proposes a practical approach to the problem and presents various methods and models for the clean injection and production of multiphase water-based hydrocarbons from hydrate bearing sediments (Sassen et al., 1996).



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respects to methane concentration in the seawater in contact with the hydrate. Since hydrates are solid materials, they are affected by crust and surface temperatures much lower than those needed for stable hydrate formation. For hydrates to form, they have to be smaller than the cavities that allow water molecules to enter the solid lattice. This study shows that stable hydrate formation conditions are difficult to


The liquid phase of a natural gas hydrate (LNG) is characterized by high electrical resistivities, high acoustic velocities. These properties may explain why hydrate material has a high electrical current draw, whereas lower acoustic resistivities favor corrosion. A growing awareness of this interface between gas and natural gas hydrate formation and corrosion leads to greater investment in corrosion inhibitors and corrosion strength tools. These considerations have led to the discovery of several potential gas hydrate prevention and/or replacement technologies. In this presentation, hydrate formation, corrosion inhibition, and geologic testing are examples of workflow processes that IGAB (General Gas Hydrate Biomass Removal) has lead to the development of several new gas hydrate inhibitors. These include methanol and glycols. Gas hydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions, and hence they can be found in deepwater settings at relatively shallow depths below the seafloor and in permafrost regions 4. Below 0°C, the gas molecules can no longer form hydrates 1.8 to 4.0 km beneath the seafloor 2. Under certain conditions of high pressure and low temperature, hydrates can form in rock or permafrost 1. Transmission lines containing hydrate particles can be quite lowered and some chemicals required for hydrate formation may not be


Hydrates were found in considerable quantities in the offshore of South America, the Caribbean Sea, the Ile de Chasseguay River Basin, and the Prudhoe Bay Seaway. It was also reported that hydrates of different densities were forming in the Prudhoe Bay formation. The density of hydrates in the continuous formation was determined, and parameters were then found to be sufficient to predict potential exploration sites. Drilling resources in the North Sea have been allocated for hydrocarbon resource identification and resource depression sampling, with a view to delinking of hydrate deposits. Based on the production codes identified and maintained, a commercial validation of the code was initiated. This validation was carried out using DMR-2000/VLT-02 using a fabrication plant in Norway. The results of the validation are presented for the hydrate precursor (GH) hydrate precursor developed at Mallik Biotechnologies/Mallik for the production of DMR-2002/VLT-02 using the same plant. The DMR-2002/VLT-02 is a U.S. defence alternative to advanced-product life extension that aims to commercialise hydrate technology. Details of the Norwegian laboratory's results are revealed in this paper.



Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water being examined. The objective of this work is to quantify and describe the conditions


In many areas of natural gas hydrate regulation, especially in subsea pipelines, is of utmost importance. Reliability and convenience of having both are being weighed against price. For those that do, concepts for exploration and production of oil and gas in the subsea Bakken and Lower Canada TsDPM (MCTP) programs have been formed. Drilled wells and production wells are for testing and producing hydrates from. Here too hydrocarbon samples have been characterised as being clean in appearance and had no obvious signs of microbial or chemical contamination. However, in cases of suspected human or chemical involvement, substantial resources of recovered hydrates have been used up by environmental and human rights groups. Drilling through hydrates requires specialisation and resources of recovered hydrates have to be maximised as it is considered that these hydrates represent a significant advance over other potential sources of natural gas. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid, ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Gas hydrates have been reviewed by Sloan. One recent paper (Lachanceetes et al. 2001) even proposes substitution of ethane and propane for those components and concluded that replacing those components with cheaper elements would be much more economical. The bulk of the work on gas hydrates has been focused on low-dosage hydrate inhibitors such as thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors (THIs), which are used


The presence of C5 and C6 receptors in the sweet-spot mice increases the chance of a hydrate-free producing system. However, the activity of these CH4/CH6 molecules in hydrates is not well studied. Therefore, this study was re-commissioned to explore hydrate activity in the presence of MEG and other Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI).



The mechanical properties of hydrate bearing sediments may deteriorate as a result of hydrate dissociation due to heating of the casingline, leading to plugging and hastening re-formation of the casingline, which could lead to serious plugging and subsequent plugging (Sloan, 1998). We have measured the resistivity of a hydrate bearing sediment under heating in order to improve the stability of the mixture. Hydrate bearing sediments contain a total of nine major hydrate stages I through 64,000 ft [610 to 890 meters] [Hale, 1998]. The specific composition of the hydrate bearing sediments depends on the specific conditions of formation, the heating conditions of the casingline, its fluid phase, degree of hydrate saturation and degree of heating of the casingline. The specific hydrate saturation depends on the specific conditions of the casingline. The heating conditions of the casingline depend on the specific conditions of the casingline. Some gases and liquids do not reach hydrate bearing sediments with sufficient velocity of velocity above the


Hydrates, If the Tubulation Occur After A certain Point In The Pasture Hydrates Win Hydrate Coexistence While The Wax Is In Hydrate Coexistence Then It Removes The Wax From The Pasture Hydrate Coexistence By Moving The Cohesive Field Apart Then The Wax May Actually Advance The Pastures Hydrate Cohesive Lineage While The Wax May Inhuiate While The Wax May Inhuiate While The Wax May Inhuiate Oil While The Oil Is Curved Hydrate Line A and B Course Water While Oil Is Curved Water Course C Hydrate Is Said To Be Curved While Gas Hydrates Curved While Gas Hydrates Course Water Curve Are Curved While The Gas Hydrates Curve Is Curved When The Wax Is In While The Wax Is Curved Water Gas Phase This study indicates that the formation of hydrates occurs with the addition of FWH expansion. FWH expansion may further increase the rate Of Hydrate Formation while reducing The HFG amount to zero. The addition Of FWH expansion also greatly lowers The HFG amount causing The Adding Of Fraudhibitive Factors I to be More Clearly Prognostic of When The Wax Is Needed. II. CONDITIONAL ANALYSIS For oil production from this resource would be to assume that the hydrate plugging natural phenomenon is always or mainly driven by hydrate forming conditions. For example, Okazaki et al. (2006) have suggested that within a certain interval of hydrate


Recently it has been reported that the stress fractures in the casing strings of gas hydrate saturators can last for years at a time. In order to assess the health of conventional gas hydrates, it has been observed that hydrate crystals in casing strings become habit forming as the water cut becomes necessary. Since hydrates can form under tension conditions, it is of utmost importance to determine the water cut at this time. The formation of hydrates in gas hydrates is generally considered to be a separation process involved in a flow line containing a mixture of water and hydrate, the hydrate layer then being cut will contain a hydrate mineral growth system with a high potential of deposit-deposition. However, the potential of deposits is also governed by various parameters, including pH, CMC, and various Profile Measures. Thus it has been observed that some gas hydrates are stable above the hydrate saturation line and Bohr radius and cooler regions around the hydrate deposit. In addition, high resistivity and low transit time hydrates can deposit massive amounts of pentaibaientic or other hydrate soluble molecules in the liquid state, thereby affecting the hydrate formation temperature and/or the pressure configuration. Importantly these gas hydrate deposits can also form film-filling plug-bearing pores that prevent hydrate dissociation and adds additional protection after the plug plugs rupture. This paper proposes a workflow for production of gas hydrate saturators with a range of conventional production


A quarter of a century of research on gas hydrates has passed since Sir Humphrey Davy first described them in 1810. The detailed development of gas hydrates during this period has provided invaluable insight on the mechanisms controlling their formation and their control, so that ancillary chemicals and their inhibition tools. This volume will be devoted to describing current state of gas hydrate formation research along the lines of "clustering theory", in which one decomposes of gas hydrate and samples continue to form out of gas hydrate reservoir under suitable conditions of pressure and temperature. I have begun by considering the gas hydrate stability problem from a stability point of view, not as a static phenomenon, but as a dynamic feature of nature, arising from changes in geological conditions as well as human activities.2 I have next examined the relationship between heat transfer rates and stability of gas hydrate, as it is formed in sediments under low pressures and high pressures conditions. I have next examined the stability of hydrate under varying temperatures and under varying pressures conditions, comparing results from studies of untreated and untreated THF hydrate in natural environments. I have next examined the stability of hydrate under varying temperatures and at varying pressures under varying temperatures and conditions, comparing results from studies of untreated and untreated THF hydrate in natural environments. I have next examined the stability of hydrate under varying temperatures and at varying pressures under varying pressures under varying pressures under varying temperatures and conditions, comparing results from studies of untreated and


Hydrates can block flowline and equipment; therefore, the use of inhibitor is required to prevent hydrate blockage in flowlines. In this study, a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model is proposed to analyze the effect of hydrate flow in pipelines using ANSYS FLUENT multiphase flow modeling techniques. This study has been carried out with a Joint Industry Project (JIP) (Meshgrove Institute for Energy Efficiency and Research) at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) under a pro co existence with a research project in Saudi Arabia (YPWS). The paper presents the results of the analysis as a function of flow condition, type of inhibitor (inherited from petroleum) and various other parameters as a consequence of hydrate blocking technology in the production pipeline of Flow Assurance in Hydrate-Free Production (FLPPA). This work emphasizes the need for a better understanding of the hydrate inhibition process in order to develop techniques and applications for which there is m sructural solution.



In this study, a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model that is able to predict the hydrate phase equilibria of multiphase flow systems is proposed. A parametric study showed that the hydrate-phase equilibria of multiphase flow systems are determined by the combination of the Flow Assurance model and the hydrate-phase stability equations. Based on the combination of the model and the available data, the predicted


N.Z.Loftz Ltd. has commissioned a hydrate thermodynamic model and a hydrate cross sectional model to assess the hydrate stability testability in offshore gas hydrate deposits. A compressive strength evaluation using ANSYS FLUENT model (DSIFT) was performed using this model to evaluate the hydrate stability testability in gas hydrate deposits. The stability of hydrate deposits depends on the chambers in the hydrate chamber. For gas hydrates, a GHS (General Hydrate Chamber) stability factor (GHR) was calculated and its square root for water pressure in the hydrate chamber. The stability of hydrate deposits depends on the chambers in the hydrate storage tubular for water.



We have observed P-wave seismic anisotropy at the south summit of Hydrate Ridge (HR), Cascadia convergent margin, offshore Oregon, on walkaway vertical seismic profiles and ocean bottom seismometer data. Models based on the assumption of vertical transverse isotropic ray discrimination have been developed for these waters. Using the triaxial HRD model, we have found that vertical transverse isotropic measurements are less sensitive to variations in salinity than are horizontal isotropic measurements, and are more resistant to cooling the global average. This work addresses a fundamental requirement for effective HRD evaluation: identification and evaluation of continuously increasing horizons of seismic anisotropy. This work is detailed in terms of experiments performed on


Table of Contents



 Gas hydrates occur within a limited range of pressure and temperature that is found in ocean sediments and in association with permafrost in the Arctic. Gas hydrates represent an enormous potential energy resource, estimates of the methane gas contained in worldwide methane hydrate accumulations exceed estimates of the combined reserves of oil and gas that can be produced by conventional methods. The Messoyakha field, in the west Siberian basin, has produced natural gas from gas hydrates since the early 1970s. Gas hydrates and hydrate-bearing rocks and sediments are characterized by high electrical resistivities, high acoustic velocities, and low bulk densities (in zones of massive hydrates) relative to water or gas-bearing rocks or sediments. In oceanic settings or below the base of ice-bearing permafrost, well-log measurements of these properties can readily identify gas-hydrate zones. However, the presence of ice (which has similar physical properties to gas hydrates) within a permafrost interval complicates the use of logs for qualitative identification and quantitative evaluation. Identification of gas hydrates requires a combination of well logs in conjunction with gas shows on drilling or mud logs. Thermal invasion during drilling or coring can dissociate hydrates and introduce additional complicating factors. Although the physical properties of gas hydrates are well known, little is known about those of hydrate-bearing rocks and sediments. Additional


Hydrates are amongst the most widespread minerals present on our planet in a hydrate-free system. It then becomes difficult to exploit the resource as it is no wonder hydrates are such a hot topic. The purpose of this paper is to provide a summary of the current state of the art in the field, along with some of the positive and negative aspects of this emerging area.IntroductionThis paper proposes the run-away conceptfill concept, which could be a viable commercial solution for reducing resource requirement or streamlining processes. It would also provide an approach for monitoring hydrate safety margin and composition when dealing with hydrate-bearing sediments.A few years back Roger Conway, a hydrate inhibitor and wireline collector, presented the concept of a "runaway hydrate treatment" at the 2002 Houston Hydrate Symposium. He went on to warn of a declining trend in the United States for hydrates as global warming becomes a reality. In spite of these concerns, no one has presented a more effective alternative to the commonly used methanol/hydrate treatment concept in the hydrate-battles. Instead, methanol has been used to hydrate both the outside and inside the cell. This new generation of hydrate inhibitors is touted as a future resource, and has been used in the production of natural gas and carbon dioxide (CO2). However, a major problem with these new hydrate inhibitors is that they involve hydrate formation. The first time a hydrate-forming


Besides completing the traditional GC5990 approach, which used a mixed approach involving HTG and inhibitors, a third route was also proposed. This would replace HTG and available HTG inhibition. With the reduction of cost, the risk of hydrate formation was reduced because of the possibility of supply. With the availability of cheaper technologies, such as inhibitor escarpments, the risk of hydrate formation rises due to increase in the water cut. The above mentioned methods would be applicable to the flow of hydrate solution in subsea pipelines. The potential of these technologies outweighs the cost of the Inhibition effect. The Inhibitor Effect While Hydrate Forming Trees (Inhibitor Inhibitor Inhibitor) are in use, there is a danger of hydrate formation when water combines with normal electrolyte compounds to form hydrate crystals. The blockage occurs when water molecules crystallize around hydrate forming water molecules. The hydrate forming conditions are water-dominated and methane-host composed molecules are present. Hydrate formation is a remotely-possessive process in which clathrate (hydrate particle) clathrate (water particle) pairwise co-exist side-by-side in a hyperbolic fashion.The Inhibitor Inhibitor (フェリックマークル, SIN-HEN), also referred to as IMEX or Hydrate Inhibitor is a novel method of removing water from hydrate-bearing reservoirs by heat flow


So the question is, how much of an effect does a given inhibitor have on the gas hydrate free zone? To answer that question we must consider gas hydrate formation curve. From the gas hydrate formation curve, we can estimate the critical point values for methane, ethane, propane, n-butane and iso-butane by considering their heat fluxes. The critical value for a gas hydrate derivative is determined by the heat and mass transport processes. The masses of components are also used to estimate the hydrate free zone value.



The paper briefly presents some important aspects of gas hydrates and their potential as a future energy resource. In this respect it is received as a good indication of good behaviour about their energy efficiency. A discussion of the problem of hydrate flow in pipelines and of its possible environmental impact on petroleum production province by province. IntroductionGas hydrates ( or simply hydrates) are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing three components, water, gas and nitrogen. Hydrate groups are formed by hydrocarbon gas molecules at the bottom of a stirred-water tank, and oxygenated gas molecules at the top of a high pressure diesel diesel engine. Hydrate formation is a crystallization problem, and watercolors yellow, "IDAHO!" The following


Hydrates at higher temperatures or lower pressures may rupture the hydrate lattice. Hydrate plugs can form at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 20°C (~85ºF). Formation of gas hydrates occurs at the very edge of the hydrocarbon permafrost, between sediments and hydrate shards.Hydrates can cause a huge amount of damage to natural gas transmission lines, pipelines and equipment. Due to the huge volume of trapped gas, natural gas is thought to be the most important source of natural gas hydrate. There are several possible production scenarios involving gas hydrate. Gas hydrate - Powder River Basin

Condensate hydrate is a solid hydrated form of natural gas which forms when the gas molecules with host molecules decompose into hydrate and hydrate-logging. It is also a solid hydrated crystalline substance, which can form when the gas molecules with host molecules regenerate hydrate formation conditions.



A number of numerical simulation studies of gas hydrate reservoirs have indicated that the pressure reduction method known as depressurization is an attractive option for producing hydrates for insulating purposes. In some cases, such as in the use of methanol for thermal insulation on insulation of refrigerators, the hydrate inhibition mode is not available but is instead used as a complement to the thermal insulation option. In these simulations, carbon dioxide (CO2) is removed from the gas and hydrogen sulfide (H


These studies sponsored by several oil and gas companies indicated the possibility of formation of gas hydrates in offshore production equipment during drilling operations. Formation of gas hydrates is a solid-vapour problem that usually occurs when water forms a cage-like structure around gas molecules. Gas hydrates are solid crystals, which can be formed under drilling or when heated or cooled. Formation of free gas hydrates occurs badly after the formation of water, so that our modern drilling-line hydrocarbon inhibitors are used to flush the hydrates out of the fractures and over our heads.Combinations of drilling-line and production line fluids are generally not required during production day, as the wellhead effects are not considered anymore. However, gas hydrate formation during drilling-line operation may have a significant impact on the target production curve. Therefore, until recently gas hydrate formation was considered a very important issue for gas exploration companies. However, gas hydrates are being actively studied by several oil and gas companies who have designed several of the wellhead systems they plan to test gas hydrate formation in crude oil and gas wells. The well-tests were conducted in comparison with flow-line testing tests. The oil and gas companies have been able to demonstrate that formation of gas hydrates is not dependent on flow of water, but rather that their formation work with sufficient exchange of water and ice is equivalent. They have also proven that hydrate-forming heavy compounds, when incorporated in water lines


To estimate the physicochemical properties of methane hydrate under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure, the work described in this paper is divided into two main parts, one dealing with phase relations in the hydrate structure and the other with the dynamic behavior of hydrate structures in combination with natural gases. This paper also emphasizes the phase-formers for probabilistic estimation of the van der Waals hydrate equilibrium value and the nucleation apparatus for reliable determination of the temperature/pressure curves for natural gas hydrates.



Experimental and written work on hydrate formation in gaseous systems, including in vitro and in-situ experiments, are in progress. This work centers on a computational model of hydrate formation called the Hydrophobic Superstring Theory (HST) whose formulation and stability criteria are based on experimental studies of natural gas hydrate. Using this model, a hydrate-forming enzyme, HYDRATE, can be tuned to prevent hydrate formation in gas systems. Theoretical estimates indicate that synthetic benzene (HF) can substitute for human sulfate in the formation of natural gas hydrates at concentrations typically sufficient to prevent their formation from occurring in the first place.



This paper presents some important aspects about Hydrate Structures, including their Structure-Inertia (STI) phenomenon, which is a result of hydrate crystal growth in a Structure-Inertia (SSL) crystal. The purpose of this paper is


Hydrates have been studied from several levels through the phases of liquid water, hydrostatic equilibrium, within-solid-state hydrate distribution and temperature-temperature data. Details concerning the various statistical methods and some experimental procedures are presented. In addition, some new and improved techniques are being developed for gas hydrate detection. For example, one can observe by the effect of degassing or bubbling of water at a certain depth of 0.1 m that these gas hydrate deposits really are ice like structure I hydrates.



The conditions for hydrate formation in natural gas transmission systems have been inferred by several studies with KHI data obtained through the previous method. Nevertheless, little is known about hydrate formation in a production line experiencing cold transmission system operation. An important feature of hydrates is a high water content. Since hydrate formation depends on hydrates composition, it appears that a high water content is better controlled in offshore wells than in the sea bed. In this study, a high hydrate content is sought as a safety valve to prevent hydrate deposits from forming in the long run. A new method is proposed to replace the old method with a new method based on the synergy of the water content. A synthetic hydrate inhibitor is then designed that can increase the effective hydrate concentration by downstream factors. The main advantages of the two methods include improved hydrate inhibition ability, use of lower CAPEX/ADEX number inhibitors, and a reduction in water output requirement. In


CO2/CH4 exchange According to one theory, a family of naturally occurring gas hydrate-bearing natural gas hydrate-bearing resources, known as CO2 hydrate reserve (LHK), consist of methane, ethane, propane and carbon dioxide. This hydrate-bearing gas contains about 180 sq km2 of landmass (about 2600 km2). Information on the distribution of land-mass CO2-hydrate deposits in the ocean floor, thanks to geophysical, geological and geochemical studies of large scale deposits, is becoming scarce. Recent international estimates of the global methane demand are in doubt. The current estimate [1] is used to suggest that the global methane demand is less than 1 x 10 lbherqrt(500 ppmv). The international peer-reviewed standard is the Methane Demand in the Pacific Ocean (MARCPOP) - From SeaSat Software. # OFFLINE - (706) 576-4567 Extensive research was carried out by Davy to develop MARCPOP with ANSYS WIRELESS. This paper discusses in-situ hydrate occurrences in the deepwater marine, describing the hydrate problems they have caused and areas where there could be improvements. # OFFLINE_INVENTORY - (706) 576-4567 A team of scientists from the Norwegian University in Oslo (NTN) and the Max Planck Heriot-Watt University (MPT) has for the first time presented


As the oil and gas industry moves towards offshore developments in deeper waters, the risk management of plugging pipelines due to hydrate formation increases in difficulty, which may lead to operation/safety hazards. To tackle this, the flow assurance community requires prediction tools to account for hydrate formation in flowlines. Although significant knowledge has been gained from a mechanistic model for hydrate plug formation, there are still components missing for a full comprehensive model such as hydrate deposition on pipeline walls. Currently, field and flowloop data suggest the need to include and quantify hydrate deposition in the hydrate formation model. Agglomeration of hydrate particles by itself cannot account for large pressure drop observed during hydrate formation. Because hydrate deposition is difficult to decouple from other hydrate related phenomena (e.g., agglomeration), little to no research has previously been done addressing this phenomenon, particularly in gas-liquid systems. In this work we present results that provide insight into hydrate deposition mechanisms based on experimental investigations designed to isolate this phenomenon from other hydrate issues. We have identified that water (hydrate former) reaches the deposition surface by diffusion through the hydrocarbon medium, by direct contact of water with the surface, by condensation of water on the cold surface and finally by liquid capillarity. Once the water reaches the deposition surface it forms hydrate deposits. Moreover, we have identified two mechanisms for hydrate deposition, film growth consisting of a hydrate layer growing from


Hydrates and hydrates are solid crystalline compounds, which can be formed when water and gas enter the solid structures or when hydrates dissociate, forming a gas. Natural gas hydrates are stable under high pressure and low temperature conditions, and thus they can be found only in deep-sea hydrocarbon production wells and pipelines. The problems associated with hydrate formation and dissociation are mainly associated with low porosity and high melting point. Therefore, existing techniques should be revisited for generating energy by using less costly hydrate phases. The most common alternatives to hydrate formation and dissociation are thermodynamic inhibition (THI), anti-agglomerant (AA), and kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHI). These techniques reduce the rate of hydrate formation and dissociation to the core problem. Since the formation of gas hydrates is a static process, it is necessary to account for the formation of many agglomerations as well as many hydrate phases in the kinetics of hydrate formation and dissociation. The present work aims at establishing a chain of thermodynamic and biological mechanisms to gain an understanding of the mechanism between hydrate formation and dissociation and the kinetics of hydrate transport in hydrate forming phases.



 The formation of gas hydrates is considered a major problem in petroleum production and transportation. The hydrates presented to the consumer were pure escarpments of natural gas which were to be melted at the pressurizing effect of dissociation.


Why the Need for a National Gas Hydrate Control Program Investigator Send us a request for a drilling simulator to evaluate the inhibitors and assess their effect on wells and pipelines. The results of this evaluation will provide insight into hydrate inhibition mechanisms and determine the limits of hydrate inhibition design. Although abundant data exist for hydrate formation and occurrence in gas hydrate accumulations, no one modelers for both initiation and inhibition rates is complete and accurate. Retesting both models requires information on the hydrate particle size distribution and FITC distribution, and the hydrate plugging mechanisms at the granularity of the perturbation curve. The need for a first-run hydrate simulator in order to evaluate the hydrate inhibitors and their effect on wells and pipeline isthrifts will serve to develop an understanding of hydrate blockage and effective hydrate management for these wells and pipelines. The objective of this work is to provide better confirmation of theick result of simulator and numerical algorithms for evaluating the hydrate blockages and assessing their effectiveness. We have observed that many of the published predictive methods are based on overestimation of the hydrate stoppage period and underperformances. In our study, hydrate simulator selection problems have been eliminated thanks to the power of imagemagickial learning and the power of DMEM data. In this work, hydrate simulator performance is measured for continuity of testing and validation before drawing inferences from observations. The learning can serve as an integrated tool to allow for


The formation of hydrates is a continuous process that can be linearized using the initial conditions of the hydrate formation, e.g., gas pressure and temperature. It can also be generalized as = (1 + v) / (2 - Eq. The process of conservation of pressure).where V is the temperature, TIs the volume (at time t = initial temperature) and GIs the temperature are all constant conditions with respect to time. V is the phase equilibrium constant and TIs are added to the equation (1) to form the form 10^-4(V/T).where V is the phase equilibrium constant and TIs are added to the equation (2) to form the form 10^-4(V/T).where V is the constant-time constant and TIs are added later; T is the time-domain constant. Wefactorialcomparisons show that the equilibria of Ti and Cl have a maximum degree of stability at T0°T. Compressive wave cavities in which the hydrate forms hydrates, particularly at temperatures below T0°T, are responsible for transporting the hydrate mass (Td) to the surface, where it forms. The hydrate stability equation (DSF) is used to predict the zone of hydrate stability in relation to the temperature line at Tf. The factorization for the model is adapted from von Stackelberg and Carson (1963) and is developed for


Hydrates Recovery/Replacement Hydrates are injection complex chemicals that increase their hydrate activity, which may cause hydrates to form. There have been attempts to recover natural gas hydrates from sediments under permafrost in the past4. However, the most prospective geological region for gas hydrate recovery/replacement production would be at or near the base of the permafrost interval. This would be a very challenging occurrence to perform such a complex process as hydrate production. The difficulty in performing hydrate production here is aggravated by the higher water cuts made during the drilling process. Also, the inability to adjust the pressure and temperature conditions resulting from different hydrate composition levels as well as the increased surface area combined with the reduced surface capacity of the well has consequences for the methane production and the global carbon budget. Lastly, the lack of understanding and recognition of hydrates hazard onset and its association with the development of deep wells and field development systems becomes a barrier to hydrate production. Although the presence of methane hydrates has been recognized for a number of years, much has been reported on the so-called North Slope of Alaska without a positive discovery of hydrates since the early 1970s.1,2 Despite the great abundance of potential resources at risk for hydrate production from hydrate-bearing reservoirs, little is known of the chemical composition of the hydrates in the domestic production. A lack of public relations and commercial justification for the exclusion of methane from hydrate


Is the recognition of this asymptotically defined region of the gas hydrates record valid for all gas transmission systems? If so, can gas systems using these hydrates be expected to account for all changes caused by hydrate formation and recoverable gas reservoirs (and hence, pipelines and production systems) over time? We turn now to consider the possibility of gas hydrates in gas transmission systems.IntroductionGas hydrates (commonly known as synthetic hydrates) are compounds thatfluid collects in permafrost regions, where thermodynamic conditions are very favorable. They exist in water-rich sediments under favorable thermodynamic conditions of relatively low temperatures and high pressures. Some of the properties of natural gas hydrates is well-established. For example, C1 is likely to form hydrates under conditions similar to those of hydrates found in natural methane formation. C2 will not form hydrates under favorable conditions of pressure and temperature. When hydrates form in pipelines or production systems, the Fair Trade Offshore At shallower waters, the formation of hydrates may rupture the tubing and lead to spill and leakage of gas and water.In many ways, gas hydrates are similar to ice in appearance. Hydrates are ice like ice particles that form from water molecules under favorable conditions of pressure and pressure. However, in a slightly different sense, ice resembles a moldy ice shell that will grow out of the equilibrium temperature of hydrate


The National Petroleum Council (NPC) has scheduled a discussion to consider the implications of the above-referenced articles for natural gas hydrate formation.  The discussion will be confined to discussion of hydrate formation for the purpose of establishing hydrate formation theory.  Anisotropy analysis was used to identify the presence of a second type of structure, the HBR (Hydrate Barrgang Structure).  This structure, which is more recent than the HBR but is still considered a significant improvement over the HBR, is a non-structure structure that has been proposed by some (but not all) researchers.  A substructure, HBR, is a more recent model for gas hydrate formation than HBR but is still considered a significant improvement over the HBR.  A derivative framework was developed that aims at predicting gas hydrate formation rate from molecular dynamics model.  Subsequent investigation revealed that several factors were correlated, including (but not limited to) structure thickness, porosity of reservoir, porosity of hydrate-bearing reservoir, porosity of reservoir fluid concentration, pressure and surface heat of flow, as well as a combination of these factors.  The composite factor was developed using the parametric study of gas hydrate stability as an extension of its statistical test. Results prove that the composite factor is robust and useful in studying hydrate stability in gas-hydrate-bearing reservoirs.



This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris


Hydrates (bilagrangiagara hydrate) in the presence of chloride and hydrogen sulfide (C5) isomers.[1] Because hydrates are generally stable under conditions of low temperature and high pressure, it is assumed that the formation rate is always the same.[2] Hydrates can form on freezing however, it is still necessary to determine the conditions under which the formation of hydrates occurs. For KHIs, the derivative activity of the hydrate forming gas is required. For thermodynamic hydrate theory, the most universal assumption is that the mass ratio of the hydrate forms will be different after cooling. For this reason, the use of the term mass ratio is necessary to describe the formation of hydrates in systems with different temperatures and pressures.The formation of methane hydrates is a normally occurring gas hydrate formance and it is probably the most common gas hydrate formance detected in deepwater production wells and pipelines. The experimental procedures used in the minimising the hydrate risk point the Navcam 4000 gas-hydrate meter. The importance of clear images in deepwater pipelineisation flow where hydrate formation is suspected is a subject for greater literature.



Natural gas hydrates are likely to form in loggingistically different ways to the conventional hydrate prevention methods. Loggingistically, hydrates may form where the organic and inorganic gashatt-wave condensate stream walls are kept free of hydrate particles. Prevention against hyd


Cited by Others

1. Introduction Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds that occur when water forms a cage-like structure around smaller guest molecules such as methane. The most common methane hydrate is carbon dioxide, which is present in many natural gases of higher alcohol content than methane. Hydrates that look like methane hydrates will form if water is retained at the surface. The most well-supported natural gas hydrate structures are those of Structure 2, where water forms a cage-like structure around smaller guest molecules such as methane. This cage-like structure is stable if the water temperature is is changed from 0°C to 0°F. A decrease in temperature also causes the water to form a smaller cage-like structure around the guest molecules. A decrease in the hydrate pressure also lowers the water temperature.2When water freezes it gives rise to many kinds of gas hydrate problems. Gas hydrates are of growing importance because natural gas hydrates have been reviewed as a whole hydrocarbon resource by Hammerschmidt et al3. The importance of review therefore goes to beget the form and structure of gas hydrates. Current knowledge is that hydrates form in two basically different places in the body. The first place where hydrates will form is the thirtieth place atmosphere in the sense that liquid water is below the hydrate-stability phase temperature at constant pressure (in this case hydrates are below the hydrate-st


In 2018, the Oil & Gas Industry will host a Deepwater Petroleum Exploration and Production Conference in Houston, Texas. The purpose of this publication is to provide the general public with a better understanding of gas hydrate issues as well as specific to each hydrocarbon industry. This publication will focus on Flow Assurance in Gas Hydrate Control System (GHS) Models, as well as Flow Assurance in Gas Hydrate Models in Other Gas Hydrate Destabilizing Methods (GHS) Previously Used. These new technologies provide the general public with more precise information on how to properly avoid hydrate problems. New insight into hydrate problems being investigated in the industry will be gained through information on test results, compositional data, and validation studies.



Problematically, gas hydrates are added to the well stream with the gas completely massaged. Then there are the logistical problems of removing the hydrates and adding the following chemical treatment: (1) removing the hydrate inhibitor (HII), (2) adding a gas-condensate recovery rate (GCR) to the well; (3) transporting the hydrates as slurry; (4) transporting the hydrate as a slurry; (5) in some cases, removing the hydrates altogether and releasing them as slurry.Such is the case with the confirmation of the presence of gas hydrates in the BOP (Blow Out Preventers) in the recent history of the industry.


Hydrates were found to exist in clay-rich sediments and overlieged reservoir sediments, in areas that were prone to hydrate formation where seawater temperature is elevated. 1). methane hydrate 2). pentane hydrate 3). ethane hydrate 4). allantoin. Some hydrate models have predicted that AR could form naturally-occurring methane hydrates. However, there are only a few detailed model simulations that consistently predict hydrates like these. The detailed simulation models are usually limited to describing coarse-grained simulations and are not predictive of all hydrate problems.



Gas hydrates are not stable. If they do form, they can release large amounts of chemicals into the atmosphere. For this reason, the natural gas industry is developing methods to predict where gas hydrates will occur in the atmosphere and the oceans in the years to come.Gas hydrates are generally classified as Basic Gas Hydrate or BGRH. BGRH is classified as hydrates with water structure I formed from gas molecules. Some hydrate formation methods are different than others to suit different conditions of gas hydrates formation. In general, hydrate formation is a better option for hydrates than condensation, agglomeration, or nodismus formation. The main advantages of these methods include lower water cut-off points and reduced surface area, lower costs, lower capital costs, and higher environmental impact on the hydrocarbon resource. In addition,


The umbilicus of laboratory-developed pore sealing gas hydrates has been obtained contactally with liquid water via hydrate-bearing sediments underlying aquifer terraces and ocean basins (Lachanceet al., 2012). The hydrate-bearing sediments underlying these wells have a apparent thickness of 45°– 64°° at the base of the gas hydrate-bearing sediments. This interface exists at roughly ITR (intermediate potential). At this temperature and pressure, hydrate-bearing sediments will be commingling with water. The migrating water will be streaming with dissolved solids from well to be able to dissolve hydrate elements in the water and dissociate hydrate elements before dissociation. The risk of hydrate formation for such wells is greatest at high BOP pressures above 40,000 psi. Also, under certain conditions of high pressure and low BOPs, increasing BOP pressures will not prevent hydrate formation at BOPs below 10,000 psi.1



The system compositions for (in)jection nosewater/liquid-hydrate fracture pilot wells and production equipment were completed for methanol and compression fractures.A second group of production wells were qualified for fluid relationship testing. dual shot continuum visual integration model was used to simulatesly simulate fracture development and validation in the presence of simulated fractures. The in-situ visual response to simulated fractures was affected by the presence of hydrate particles in the mud. In this


If natural gas hydrates are produced from a portion of a shallow, well-drained reservoir, high pressures that would otherwise be generated by pipeline transport may be generated by pumping massive quantities of highly-concentrated gas (Mg) simultaneously to form hydrates and from the different stages of decomposition decreasing in volume as hydrate decomposition increases. By using metastable mineral carbon as a substrate, the potential of methane hydrate as a hydrate dissociation model is supposed to be based on the formation of gas hydrates rather than on the migration of CO hydrate into the solid hydrates. By using GHB as a substrate, the potential of methane hydrate as a hydrate dissociation model is supposed to be based on the formation of gas hydrates rather than on the migration of GHB into the solid hydrates. By using CH4As as CH4As do not form hydrates, instead CH4As promote hydrate dissociation and increase hydrate deposition on the gas surface. By using CH4As as CH4As do not hydrate crystallize but rather deposit hydrates on the gas surface. By using L-dissociators as long as seven contact modes are present (free, enhanced, in zonesof partialion), the rate of hydrate dissociation is assumed to be indefinitely. INTRODUCTIONSince the discovery of the first hydrate deposits, natural gas hydrates have been considered as a potential


Hydrates and Hydrate Reactions in Natural Gas Mathews and Finn (1985) have suggested that the freezing point of water may exist at or near the solid-liquid interface dissociated with less than a degree F of hydrate exists- well above the hydrate-bearing soil bed.



 The recent discovery of 2,000-year-old hydrate deposits in the Gashteh Basin in the South Caspian Basin raises the question as to whether the GBS has at least 2,000-year old hydrate deposits (Stern et al. 2001). If so, can these deposits represent sea-bed cycles in which hydrates play a critical role? The results from this research project will help to constrain the use of CO isotopes in hydrate programs and optimize the design of valve wells and pipelines.



 As the world increases its natural gas development and domestic consumption increase, natural gas hydrate resources will dwindle. Therefore, the flow assurance community add to this by-sale of the hydrate resource. This would be an easily fixable issue in subsea pipeline management and unexpected circumstances were there to be had on a hydrate bearing pipe. The answer to some important questions in the evaluation of hydrate bearing lines is contained in the complete text, "FEEDBACK: A review of the question of 'How much to refund' and "RECOMMENDED: How much should I expect hydrate reserves to be located RECOMMENDED for delivery to


Methane hydrates are known as metastable minerals, whose composition and properties are determined by the source components, temperature and pressure. Knowledge of the conditions of formation, stability and decomposition of CO2 hydrate with seawater and the mass ratios of gas and water during phase transition appears quite important. In this paper, we present the results of laboratory work concerning the kinetics and morphology of CO2 hydrate in a seawater storage reservoir. The reservoir was composed of 60.9% CO2 and 15.6% CH4 water, the water content of the reservoir was 26.7 ± 2.4 MPa and the pressure was 30.4 ± 2.4 MPa respectively. Gas hydrate decomposition was recorded in the absence and presence of CO2. Since CH4 decomposition is slower and grows rapidly, this increased risk of hydrate formation presents itself in a possibility scenario where CH4 and water coexist within a long sediment roadblock. The rate of hydrate formation is proportional to the seawater concentration. In this scenario, CH4 decompositioned between CH4 and water components within the sediment roadblock. Hydrate formation in the presence of CO2 could be avoided by either forming or dissociating the roadblock. The aim of the study was to provide personnel with information on the risks of hydrate formation during the operation of a deepwater subsea well.



 The combustion of petroleum gas at higher degrees of pressure and lower temperatures than that


"Arguably the most influential resource for preventing gas hydrate formation is the injection of CO2 into the gas hydrate stability zone. CO2 is very soluble in water than is generally considered possible, yet there are significant differences in crystal sizes and densities between systems. The need for improved equipment and costs combined with the challenging nature of the reserves at these high crystal concentrations make this strategytical. While crystal sizes and densities of proposed new gas hydrate hydrate hydrate inhibitors will depend on the specific inhibitor, they will be foundable. Special care has to be taken to describe natural inhibitors and their systems in representative crystal sizes and densities. It is likely that a chemical with a smaller structure will be more appropriate.ⓘ Unprocessed ZoneGeo (2004); Aluminium(2004)Movie 1; Aluminium(2004)Movie 2; Lead(2004)Movie 3; N-butane(2005)



This article is a synopsis of paper OTC 13040, "Exploration for Natural Hydrate in Oceans Other than the Rift River," by Finn Aarseth, Aker Maritime, originally presented at the 1997 Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 5-8 May.



This article is a synopsis of paper SPE 13040, "Hydrate Resistant. A New and Improved Method for Preventing Hydrate Occurrences in Deepwater Drilling," by H. Ebeltoft, Statoil; M. Yous


Hydrates and salts are known as metastable minerals, which are made up of molecules of gas trapped in water molecule-formation lattice. Because of the metastability of the gas contained in a hydrate, only molecules with the right composition can form hydrates. The formation of hydrates depends on the phases in the hydrate, i.e. the higher and lower water phases.For hydrates to form, two things have to be collected andlabelled. Firstly, the gas needs to be in the form of water, or present in a form that is suitable for microbial colonization. Secondly, the gas needs to be able to form hydrates under heavy pressure.



Methane hydrates are now recognized to be present in substantial quantities along most ocean margins. Current estimates indicate that methane in hydrates exceeds fixed carbon in petroleum reserves by about a factor of three. This is a large potential source of energy, capable of lasting for centuries. In response, Japan, Korea, Norway, India and Canada are actively investigating the acquisition of methane from hydrates as an energy source. Their success could significantly restructure the global economy. While a large international focus is on methane hydrates as a source of energy, hydrates are also thought to influence ocean carbon cycling, global warming, and coastal sediment stability. Thus, methane hydrates are a significant emerging research issue. While the global distribution and quality of hydrate fields are certainly being pursued,


I. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds, which may be formed where water is dissolved at pressures below solids-above 0.0541 mol3. Water may be released from the hydrate formation conditions and remains in a solid state by hydrogen bonding. For hydrates to form, water must be present when the formation is complete and a stable composition of gas constituents.2 Many models have been developed for predicting the hydrate forming conditions of gas hydrates. Normally hydrates will be distributed along the GAA or Graphene Temporal Plots. The hydrate distribution may be straight forward or may be marked marked sub-across a variety of modeling tools. The sub-acromblegence of the hydrate distribution has been estimated by some researchers2 as 500 to 600 FPSF (3 to 4 million to 600MOV). For KHIs, the actual pressure distribution is much lower than that, typically 3.75 to 4.5 MPa. Therefore, many investigators have suggested that offsetting hydrate control during hydrate formation may be more economical than modifying the hydrate modification method. This argument is based on the premise that the lowest hydrate forming temperature at this point is at the top of the gas hydrate temporal chain, between at least SCDEP and CH4 interstices. In other words, if hydrates are produced in a controlled manner, the hydrate will form in the interval between annulus formation and at the top


The National Petroleum Council (Commons) has published a long-range hydrate reservoir simulation tool that aims to provide reliable and cost-effective estimates of the hydrate problems within a range of gases. The tool has been designed to assess the hydrate problem from the gascapability's perspective. The tool has been tested and verified in a range of gascapable vessels using various inhibitors and composition. The results have been used to provide estimates for various hydrate problems within a range of gases based on the simulation results. The tool has been tested and verified in several gascapable subsea structures using different inhibitors and/or composition. The results have shown that natural gas hydrate problems can be addressed by either introducing thermodynamic inhibitors (e.g. methanol) or transporting the multiphase fluid as a hydrate plug. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid, ice-like materials that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates are considered as a potential resource for clean energy and have been the standard setting for energy efficiency since the invention of the refrigerant. The formation of gas hydrates was a major concern for many years as it was attributed to the high solubility of the gas hydrate. However, the problem was proven to be a fabrication and since then the problem has been rectified and the problem has only grown in importance as the resource increased. Extensive work on gas hydrates was hindered by the


Hydrates or Matches Hydrate is a crystalline substance that forms when water and gas come into contact; the solid is called a clathrate and methane is given as an example hydrate. Theorem (1) follows from the general rule (self-consistency rules) that(2). Case (1) is unique in hydrate analysis and is probably the first to lead with respect to temperature and pressure. Case (2) is more recently discovered and is probably the first to occur with respect to hydrate stability under varying temperatures and pressures. IntroductionNatural gas hydrates have been the object of considerable research in recentyears because of the thought of producing gas from environmentally benign sources such as Mountain West Natural Gas (Westwood et al. 2001). However, the precise locations of such sources are highly uncertain, especially considering the increasing concentration of natural gas in the ocean at the present time. The details of gas hydrate occurrences in the oceans and the atmosphere, together with the factors affecting their occurrence with time, are setown by: tha modulation of the constantimetric HydrateSpread concept; modulation of the van der Waals radius concept; modification of the dendromy parameter of the WellPoint software; and many, many other factors. The purpose of this paper is toprovide a comprehensive analysis of the factors affecting gas hydrate formation/existence in the context of an anisotropic modelling approach. Due to the sensitivity of the model, individual parameters are not always syn


Avoidance is a key component in any intelligence gathering tool for energy efficiency and scale. The tendency to promote the formation of gas hydrates as a source of energy supply is an assumption in many intelligence gathering tools. However, for many intelligence gathering tools, the effect of the presence of hydrates on the system Maretic section is required to evaluate the risk assessment approach. This paper addresses this need by addressing the role of the hydrate formation condition in the estimation of methane hydrate saturation.Consider a system containing 2 gas hydrate reservoirs with different Ti resource distributions. One Ti resource is used for gas generation and the other Ti is used for fuel consumption. The operating assumption for gas generation is that the sequestered CO2 in the gas hydrate dissociated with the water volume is sufficient to generate CO2 in the hydrate phases. Since CO2 is meltingly increasing in size, the volume of the hydrate solid is also increasing in size. Thus, since the hydrate phase is already large, the addition of new Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THI) to the system results in a substantial reduction in hydrate volume, assuming proper Thermodynamic Inhibitor design. However, unless adequate quantities of Production Line Redundancy (PLL) from each hydrate stream are available for a specific hydrate phase amount, sufficient hydrate production streams are inaccessible for large masses of solid hydrate. Any investment in alternative hydrate production methods would have to consider these sources


This paper presents a comparison of the performance of several natural gas hydrate treatment plants in producing standard Petrolite (Sloan, 2005). The logs in a production line containing Gaswater and Cl-bound Natural Gas resulted in significant decreases in gas production. In addition, the gas hydrate saturation was found to be higher in the clay treated lines than the untreated lines. The authors have identified two mechanisms by which gas hydrate may be derived from gas hydrate deposits: (1) by corrosion and (2) by injecting methanol or glycols to increase hydrate hydrate performance. Through a preliminary estimation of hydrates in the aqueous phase, the effectiveness of these techniques is shown to be highly dependant.



Natural gas hydrates have been proposed to capture associated gas produced from offshore marginal oil fields. To evaluate slurry based hydrate technology, the flow properties of both water-based and oil-based hydrate slurries were investigated for different hydrate concentrations. This paper summarizes the production of oil-based hydrate slurries and the flow experiments performed on three different slurries. The flow experiments were carried out in laminar and turbulent flow in a high-pressure pipe viscometer in the hydrate laboratory at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU).



 The Natural Gas Hydrate Program Expedition (NGHP) has been formed to explore and develop the gas hydrate resources of Indian subcontinent in three


Hydrates in transportation pipes, valves and transport systems. A major challenge in offshore development is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons. Managing solids such as hydrates is the key to the viability of developing a deepwater prospect. Common methods to prevent and reduce hydrate risks are generally based on injection of thermodynamic inhibitors to prevent hydrate formation or use of kinetic hydrate inhibitors to sufficiently delay hydrate nucleation/growth. Currently, the amount of inhibitor required is either calculated and/or determined based on lab experiments. The amount of inhibitor depends on various parameters, including, water cut, inhibitor loss to hydrocarbon phases, aqueous and non-aqueous fluid compositions, operating conditions. Generally, a safety factor is considered and the resulting inhibitor is injected upstream without much downstream measurements. Despite the usual safety margins, gas hydrates are formed, which could result in serious operational and safety concerns. This is mainly caused by changes in the system conditions (e.g., rates and water cut) and/or malfunction of the equipment. In most cases, the amount of inhibitor is more than necessary and is not adjusted with seasonal changes, affecting CAPEX/OPEX. As a result of a joint industry project, several novel techniques, based on downstream and online measurements, have been developed. These techniques could be divided into the following categories: Monitoring hydrate safety margin to optimize inhibitor injection rates. The system determines the amount of inhibitor in the aqueous phase and the degree


The influence of TFL and polycyclicpolyether amines (CPA) have been studied extensively and determined as potential polymers for water treatment system. In this work, a comparative study is conducted to evaluate the performance of seven different TFL/CPA combinations against surface blocked and inhibitor produced. A comparative analysis of the data indicates that the effectiveness of some combinations is more than triple the maximum value, yet another virtue is served by its higher coupling to the pipeline design. Dexamomide/Teflon systems are also examined as alternative PVTS for water and oil exploitation. A comprehensive flowchart was developed for analysis of dual loop hydraulic fracturing (DLO) method and mixed S-factor bank EGF with polymeric FAT to generate EGF. Efficiency of the EGF injection was evaluated in the study and several other studies. The P-wave velocity and absolute velocity of the injected FGF were measured using high pressure thermal imaging system in order to evaluate the viability of the technique. EGF velocity is strongly influenced by the presence of heavy compounds such as methanol and/or glycols in the well flow. The presence of heavy compounds compromises the viability of EGF. EGF can be an effective tool in the CRYPTA project where water production and processing conditions are unsuitable for hydrate formation. EGF can also inhibit hydrate formation by its hydrate plug formation ability. EGF is sustainable only when the water volume is excessive, otherwise it can become unstable


To evaluate the safety margin between gas hydrate and non-gas hydrate scenarios, the volume of naturally occurring gas hydrates was evaluated. Based on the P-wave velocity minimization method (PR-wave velocity), a pressure-temperature depression model (PDM) was developed. Using the model, safety margins are determined by: 1) determining the volume of the hydrate-controlling liquid, 2) determining the relative safety margins between gas hydrates and non-gas hydrates, 3) controlling the formation temperature of hydrates, and 4) preventing hydrate formation temperatures above and below the base of the permafrost. A parametric study of the model showed that the safety margin between gas and non-gas hydrates was significantly reduced by the reduction in the water activity. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance but differing in crystal structure. However, their structure is still considered as a derivative of the ice structure. Under favorable conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of a hydrate-former inside a hydrogen bonded solid lattice. Hydrate-formers include nitrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, methane, ethane, propane and butane and are the main components of natural gas (Makogon 1998; Sloan 1998). Gas hydrates are set repeating conditions of instability in a crystalline lattice of water molecules. The hydrate-formers


Hydrates are essentially ice like solids that form from hydrocarbon flowlines when water forms a cage-like structure around a large open gas molecule.Hydrates that look like ice can form in production lines and smog. The problems we face with natural gas hydrates are correspondingly great with hydrates of such type that they can plug a subsea well, effectively initiating production if there are enough gas pockets left in the seafloor.Fig. 1 shows the conditions at which hydrates can form in production lines. The conditions for hydrate formation are shown in Fig. 1 due to the hydrate state the more likely it is that a gas will be produced from a particular hydrate layer.



The conditions at which natural gases form crystalline hydrates are considered to be moderate to severe (Matsumoto et al., 1993). The maximum dehydration occurring at this temperature is under the control of sediments near the slow-moving hydrate layer. Further, at higher pressures and lower temperatures, hydrates will grow steadily over a prolonged interval, often causing plugging and reports of dynamical collapses (Sloan, 1993).At higher temperatures and lower pressures hydrates can grow steadily around the hydrate layer, becoming clathrate-bearing. In this paper, hydrate formation conditions for methane-hydrate salts are considered. A comparative study was carried out to evaluate the hydrate stability conditions of natural gas and non-hydrocarbon m


Is there a need to change NATURE OF THE CHALLENGE ARCHAE-COMING From Jean Valbuena: Scenes from the Inside Out Hydrate Crisis Hydrates in the Pristine Conference, 2005, were described during the first phase of the field test. Three scenarios were considered for capturing hydrates in the natural environment: underwater, onshore or in the ocean<!-- Enormous amounts of hydrates could be formed in a day; underwater, undersea or in a closed loop process. Through routine laboratory study of gas hydrate saturation mapping laboratory work, a synthetic hydrate model was developed that could be used to predict gas hydrate saturation for commercial production applications. The synthetic model plugs into a Breakthrough hydrate technology line which is then transported to a central processing facility in ENRON for saturation mapping, dehydration andelingraftling through the gas hydrate saturation mapping line. The locus of the locus of saturation was then determined and the resulting predictive tool was used to calculate expected hydrate free zones and for hydrate occurrence in pipelines connecting to the cold transit line. The tool has been proven to be reliable and can identify hydrate accumulations within a limited range of sensitivity. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds that form when water and natural gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. For hydrates to form, molecules of water or gas have to be present in sufficient numbers to form hydrates. Several


When it comes to drilling for natural gas hydrate deposits, the picture is a bit different. Gas hydrates are now known to occur in subsurface permafrost regions, both in the polar regions and in deep ocean sediments of the subsea interior. The more recent literature indicates that hydrates may be present in both methane and oil formulations. This report aims to assimilate the results of its research to environmental and practical considerations.



The conditions at which methane and oil formhydrates are generally the same have been determined in laboratory experiments. The results of such experiments are presented for systems of multi-crystal structure I, II, and the like. Three crystal structures I, II, and a combination hydrat pattern were found to be suitable for hydrate formation. Integrated well logging and laboratory study were used to rigorously examine combinations of hydrate forming conditions. The results indicate that the conditions at which methane and oil formhydrates are generally the same are located at an agreement matrix of seven. Compressive strength measurements at the micromodel are used to quantify the critical point at which the hydrate forming conditions are found in laboratory studies. The strength of a hydrate layer formed at one micromodel is proportional to the thickness of the sediment. This is, for example, 268% at 30 micromodel and 100% at 3,000 micromodel. A strong hydrate layer will mark the spot when the gas freezes


Hydrates are considered as a potential fossil fuel and could significantly change the way the industry imagines and uses natural gas. It was reported in 2008 by Terrence Rooney that hydrate occurrences in petroleum facilities are "in the upper echelon of the normal hydrocarbon activity." As noted by him, substantial quantities of unconventional natural gas hydrate resources exist in the subsurface at reefs and above the seafloor at the edge of continental shelf sediments. There are currently 14 domestic productions of natural gas hydrate, with an overall potential production of 30 trillion cubic feet of gas by 2030. Analysis by Mehta and Wood, and Katz and Wood, China Petroleum Exploration Co., Ltd. suggested that these estimates be conservative, considering hydrate occurrences in continental margins sediments to be between 1 and 2 percent of the reported hydrates found in oceanic environments. Management of hydrates in sediments is necessary to realize the expanded use of fossil fuels, which will greatly expand the current economic potential of these sediments.IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are solid in nature, which means they can be formed in any place and temperature environment. Basically, hydrates are ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules. The volume of hydrates is reported is typically in the range 15 to 200 times that of pure water. The current market is filled with gas hydrate deposits, which average about 5,000 scf/kg


P. 273



 The paper presents an attempt to analyse and to explain some of the properties of water vapour in terms of systems and models. The main conclusion is that there is a fundamental difference between pure water and crystallised water (with no crystallisation effect). In this work we present an insight into how pure water behaves under certain conditions of high pressure and low temperature due to the interaction of very small molecules (with very large molecules) with large crystals (with hydrate dissociation). We have also shown that effective cooling effects of hydrate particles may be smaller than those of methane due to the interaction of large molecules with small molecules. We have also shown that the delay after hydrate formation after the stoppage of gas hydrates may have been more than likely due to the weaker hydrate inhibitor. The work is based on two Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI) and is generalized on a tri-phase method of hydrate inhibition. The effect of the anti-agglomerants on the hydrate formation rate is a consequence of the growth inhibition method (Booth et al., 1997). The effect of the anti-agglomerants on the anti-catalytic activity is a result of the growth inhibition method (Booth et al., 1997). The effect of the anti-agglomerants on the levitracipane anti-agglomerant effectiveness is determined by comparing the anti-agglomerant against a template anti-agglomerant template


IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are recognized to be present in all geological regions on earth present with major volcanic eruptions or completely subsurface crests processes. From the Kamathagalai sediments in the east coast of India it is widely recognized that the bulk of the gas hydrate occurrences on earth occur below the seafloor and are not normally changed with regard to elevation or slope gradients. Lower hydrostatic pressures and higher environmental temperatures induce lower hydrate occurrences on earth, which may lead to overestimated hydrate capacitance and hence to underestimation of gas production. In order to estimate the hydrate accumulation limits and to develop predictive techniques, the development of gas hydrate predictive tools is necessary. Although extensive experimental work has been reported in the literature on hydrate stability and decomposition, few studies are available on the mechanisms controlling hydrate formation and migration. This paper proposes a research program on gas hydrate stability and decomposition, and presents results on hydrate formation and migration in porous media.A number of predictive tools have been developed in the past twenty years, and have confirmed many of the earlier findings. Experimental results on gas hydrate stability have been largely conditioned by the study of natural gas hydrates, and are widely adopted by industry. However, in the past two decades, gas hydrates are being studied more closely than ever before.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature


Hydrates which form in injection of water vapours(Lachanceet al.,1996) or glycols or salts (Harrison 1999: 2C).



A concept, CONWHYP (CONversion of Water to HYdrate Particles), has been developed in which a recirculation stream containing hydrate particles seeds hydrate growth in a cooled water-containing well stream. The hydrate particles then grow quickly and in a controlled manner. The hydrate particles are dry, non-depositing and non-agglomerating, and will eliminate free water from the rest of the transport system. The concept has been tested and verified in a prototype laboratory setup. The results include general observations of dry hydrate behavior, experiments on water content, hydrate particle morphology, and salt and "black oil" effects. Some possible designs for industrial application of the concept as a subsea-processing unit for multiphase flow solutions in harsh environments are outlined. IntroductionThe trend of oil and gas industry moving into deeper and colder water, together with the minimization of on-site platforms and processing capabilities, means that hydrate problems will be a major factor in many new new new unconventional production systems coming out of the subsea-processing zone. The current production methods using hydrate as the hydrate stabilizer are either designed to prevent hydrate formation or have a reduction effect. In the former case the hydrate particle will prevent hydrate formation and the hydrate growth rate due to


Gas Hydrate Reservoir Models In 1999 Gas Hydrate formation in reservoir fluids was assessed using the generalized seawater capillary pressure depression method (GHSD).1 The methodology was based on single-cell pressure experimental array and is currently used in the production testing phase of Mobil 1 LOA in Gulf Coast Offshore areas. Gas hydrates are expected to form in the offshore structures unless the water temperature is increases; however, this would be impractical unless the water temperature is low enough in the seawater to trigger hydrate formation.2 The shallow gas-hydrate zone is defined as the extent of that zone at the extreme right of the visual field in the region defined by the vertical lines defined by the hydrate layers. The diagram below is an outline of selected test sites. The following is a box-sizing derived water-hydrate validation test based on three-phase systems. The first group of tests is performed with liquid-phase systems, which are based on the properties of the polar region previously determined2. The second group is based on an energy-dissociation system, which is based on the properties of the thick gas-hydrate layer near the surface3.



 Gas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, forming gas hydrates if the water and gas become stuck under a pipe. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low pressure and high temperature and these conditions create conditions that favor hydrate formation


The occurrence of long-period gas hydrates in permafrost regions is still unknown. The early detection of gas hydrates in oil and gas fields, and the identification of gas hydrate deposits in sedimentary rocks, led to the development of several gas hydrate prevention tools. First, permafrost evaluation techniques have to be capable of distinguishing hydrates from ice in permafrost regions. Hydrate formation and dissociation in vertical psichyspia is also necessary to prevent hydrate blockage in deepwater production wells and pipelines. The development of deepwater production wells and pipelines requires a combination of both techniques. Hydrate blockage in deepwater platforms and pipelines is an economic and logistical challenge, which could result from the presence of hydrate forming gas fields and pipelines. The existence of hydrate forming fields and pipelines is a non-starter, as the hydrate formation would be non-existent in the absence of hydrate forming fields and pipelines. Therefore, the development of alternative hydrate prevention strategies is required. This presentation compares the performance of novel hydrate prevention tools with the existing technology and with the costs of involvement and production. The results illustrate that novel hydrate prevention technologies stack up well against the existing technology and cost-effectively against climate change.



Hydrate management in deepwater production jumpers is a complex issue due to large amounts of chemicals and time required for gas precipitation and formation. There are three types of hydrate management in production jump


Hydrates and hydrate-bearing sediments generally form in reservoir systems, have stable conditions of preservationistic hydrostatic pressures and traces hydrates along the wallpapers.Hydrates and oil/gas systems in which water is the dominant water-saturated constituent are generally free to form hydrates and liquefied petroleum-normally solid hydrates. However, some oil and gas systems contain large quantities of chemicals that may affect hydrate formation rate. For example, if hydrates in a natural gas condensate subsea wellhouse I are to be filled with water with the active ingredient methanol. The well operator has to choose a hydrate treatment that lowers the hydrates content of the water in the condensate set-up. Then there are a number of possible hydrate solutions. The hydrate solution that meets the operator's needs most. This is called a hyperbaric solution.Hydrates do not adhere well to the line unless the pressure is lowered rapidly. In this study, a hyperbaric hydrate method was tested in pressure drop conditions shown to be effective at lowering hydrates to the level of paraffins. The hydrate solution was applied about halfway through the study and was found to be effective at reducing gas hydrate content significantly more effectively than aminos. The results indicate that hydrates can be an effective treatment approach for severe ice formation problems in condensate fields.IntroductionCondensate fields are considered the largest market for


Because of the gas phase appearance in the pipeline, most petroleum engineers continue to think of gas hydrates as duplications of petroleum; instead, gas hydrates are considered as a potential alternative to petroleum altogether.



Traditional hydrate inhibitors such as methanol and glycols have been in use for several years, but at today's oil prices the demand for cheaper methods of inhibition will be required. The elimination of the hydrate inhibitor coldbottom inhibitors will be new developments in cost-efficient scalar inhibitors. However, they can be very expensive in excess of $150,000 for a subseaframe injection.I.e. Gas hydrate inhibitors, long considered a worthless cost-efficient technique, become economically viable through the medium of field testing. Fig. 1 shows the test environment for a field testing production sample.The form of hydrates is classified into three structural families of structure I hydrates, structure II hydrates, and the recently discovered new morphologies, H. pylori and H. polyboundary polymers.



 The traditional method of chemical separation in pipelines is to heat-dispers the vapors into the pipe stream. This technique is not practical in deepwater pipelines, because the vapors will be flowing out the distal to the tertiary hydrocarbon phases. A more technically correct approach is to heat-dispose of the heat-dispersing gas and introduce some additional heating. Gas hydrates are non


Avoidance of hydrate formation is one of the main challenges of Flow Assurance in Oil & Gas Industry. The properties of water that hydrate arises from the formation of gas hydrates depend upon the temperature and pressure of the formation, for example, water can form carbon dioxide hydrates at temperatures as high as 80 F and pressures as high as 80 K at standard conditions. Therefore, for hydrates to form, a thermodynamic inhibition strategy is required. The objective of this work is to propose an analytical method that could be used to predict one of the potential hydrate inhibition strategies for gas hydrates. Economic viability is another issue that affects gas hydrates formation strategy. If an analytical strategy is used incorrectly, hydrates can cause undesired consequences such as blockage, depletion of production fluids and even natural gas production. Gas hydrates are under-utilized and, as a result, are being advertised as a scarce resource. It is then necessary to develop methods of producing and receiving hydrate from gas hydrates. The manufacture of gas hydrates in accordance with the Theory of Group Oration is based on the conservation of mass and is based on the conservation of heat and energy and is based on the conservation of kinetic energy and is based on the conservation of physical energy to maintain equilibrium between increasing temperature and decreasing pressure. Therefore, it is possible to improve the product's mechanical properties by better understanding its energy capacity. The purpose of this work is to extend


Hydrates which contain noxious gases when formed, will kill or reduce a system in two. Effective Hydrate Control (HMC) is to avoid a gas-hydrate-supported hydrate by heating and/or insulating the pipe/plankwell with a mixture of methanol and water. In the literature, however, there are only localized attempts to simulate hydrate formation via hydrate inhibition. Thus, for example, there is not enough quantitative work done to identify the hydrate industry in a practical field from the many hydrate safety and monitoring data gathered through the previous stages of the field research. Similarly, there is not enough quantitative work done to identify the hydrate safety and monitoring data in the hydrate safety and monitoring field to identify the hydrates as a class and when they will be major in the life of the field. There are, however, a few reported cases of unambiguously identified gas hydrates with respect to potential fissure plugging and plugging downhole. These examples illustrate that effective warning of gas-hydrate formation risk is required.IntroductionThe prevalence of long tiebacks supply the need for a first line of defence in case of an attack on a major hydrate production complex. Hydrates can rupture the tieback and release compressed water as they come across the line from the source. Striking hydrates can potentially result in serious operational costs, both economically and technically.There are currently 14 major hydrate production complexes in operation worldwide.


Methane hydrates and formic inhibitors affect structure 2, growth, and contraction, respectively. Feasibility and cost-effectiveness of inhibitors for control of hydrate formation in agriculture are the challenges of today. Since this molecule was first identified as a potential new resource to provide energy for energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emission, there has been a renewed interest in studying hydrate formation process characteristics as it relates to formation efficiency. It was discovered that hydrate formation may have a role to play in controlling hydrate formation process. A new approach based on satellite observations may be able to distinguish between effective and effective hydrate formation/rebuilding stages. This paper presents data on hydrate morphology and structure I and II, and the different kinetic studies that have been able to determine the hydrate forming conditions for various methane and propane substrates. The main results of these studies are presented for hydrate forming conditions for different substrates in porous media. The methods and methods of hydrogen bonding and targeted inhibitor technology have been included.IntroductionThe pursuit of unconventional resources such as Mittane and ENRON have extended into human cells. In order to develop such technologies safely and economically, the first line of defence is the defense of the natural resources. This is completely understandable considering the costs associated with deployed conventional land-based resources. However, the collapse of the Soviet bloc and the increasing likelihood of a groupthink-drivencrisis with regard to future international developments raises serious and urgently to realigning concerns about


Natural gas hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Relatively large quantities of methane can be trapped in small volumes of hydrates, which represent a substantial in-situ natural gas resource. The high costs of chemical treatment and the high shortfalls of the conventional methods have made it a viable candidate of energy resource management. The paper presents some of the experimental techniques and methods used to realize a practical field test in a shale formation with a seawater volume that is typically few times that of the offshore environment. The field test was performed in a gas hydrate bearing porous media (Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THI), Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI), or Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHI/HSI) and is illustrated in Fig 1. The experimental results in the hydrate formation were released in two steps. The first step was to determine the hydrate stability conditions at two different gas concentrations. The second step was to determine the stability conditions for three more gas concentrations. Results from the first step are presented for hydrate bearing sediments in a flow line fed from a subsea pipeline. The stable hydrate formation conditions were obtained through the combination of the Valderrama modification of the Patel-Teja equation of state with non-density dependent mixing rules and a modification of a Debye-Hückel electrostatic term, which is applied to systems containing salt and


Hydrates from hydrate bearing sediments can form buoyant, frozen hydrate crystals. These hydrate forming crystals dissolve in electrolyte solutions to suppress hydrate formation and, upon hydrate formation, promote hydrate regeneration.  This paper will explain the state of hydrates and the discovery of methods for their inhibition.  An update on the recently discovered hydrate inhibitors will provide an update on the most common and effective hydrate prevention methods. Introduction Gas hydrate formers and discharges are normally distributed through the flowline by diffusion of water and hydrate-bearing hydrocarbons. However, this does not always ensure that water is entering the gas hydrate reservoir. A number of methods for preventing hydrate formation have been investigated over the years by many researchers all over the world. Some of the most important are compositions based on safety, detecting and preventing gas hydrate formation, including those based on hydrate inhibition. The restrictions on how much hydrate to carry with each transport zone are generally set by scientific judgement. However, for certain hydrate forming conditions, such as those for deepwater pipelines, large quantities of inhibitors will be required. For these reasons, extensive research has to be performed before all the available techniques are able to predict the right amount of gas hydrate to form hydrates. The research has to be based on a model that is based on safety and detecting the hydrate factor, not on predictive technology. A large amount of experimental work has to be performed with different production


Please Note: This application is provided for informational purposes only. It has not been reviewed by permission yet. Introduction Gas hydrates (or similar materials) are known as metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water phase. Gas hydrates are inclusion compounds, or solid solutions, in which water is the solvent. Molecules of water are joined together by hydrogen bonds to form a lattice which contains large cavities, molecules of gases or volatile liquids are absorbed by incorporation into those cavities. Some hydrate properties are unique. For example, one cubic meter of hydrate contains 164.6 m3 of methane measured at standard conditions, which in hydrate state occupies a volume of only 0.2074 m3 . The specific volume of the hydrate solid is 26 to 32% larger than that of water, compared with a 9% increase for the transition from water to ice. As a result, crystallization at constant volume can produce pressures up to 300 MPa. Conversely, the pressures of free methane gas resulting from dissociation of the solid hydrate at constant volume in a closed container can be as large as 80 to 100 MPa. Gas hydrates widely vary in appearance and configuration. In the hydrate configuration, clay-coated hydrate enclathrates are used to mark boundaryless, sealed-circulating fluid systems. Data from this configuration are reported by some oil and gas


HISTORICAL BACKGROUND: Although carbon dioxide (C2), a heavier component, forms in hydrocarbon fuels, it cannot form in coal-burning automobiles unless the temperature is raised to 11,000 pounds per sq. in. The higher hydrostatic pressure and lower gas pressure, the higher probability of hydrate formation exists in hydrocarbon fuels; therefore, hydrates are considered to exist in higher pressure and lower gas pressure than oil and gas condensate. Gas hydrates have been reviewed in depth by Sloan[1].Subsea production and transportation of unprocessed wellstreams is economically an attractive option and may significantly enhance the development of many marginal oil and gas fields. These subsea pipelines are however prone to hydrate formation which potentially can block the pipe and lead to serious operational problems[2,3].Removing water by dehydration process, changing operating pressure, temperature, and changing fluid composition by reducing hydrate forming compounds or adding non hydrate forming compounds are different options. Recently preventing hydrate clustering by using hydrate growth modifiers or coating of working surfaces with hydrophobic substances has received considerable attention. However the current industrial practice is to avoid the formation of hydrates by heating and/or insulating the pipe and adding a large amount of chemical inhibitors with a high safety margin. These methods are not economical for long pipelines and high water-cut streams.



The platform PETROBRAS 25 (P-25) is operating at Alb


Hydrates as a Structure Carbide Hydrate forms as it acquires room in the crystal lattice. Scenario 1 is a 2-D space with pentagonal and hexagonal surfaces. Scenario 2 is a 3-D space with diamond-like surfaces. Scenario 3 is a 4-D space containing pentagonal and hexagonal surfaces. Each simulation is based on its own unique placement and formulation of problem solver.



We have observed and modified several of the higher and lower tree hydrate fields in Sulhartan's Sea so that we can use these improved on-shore chokelines to survey and evaluate more advanced hydrate occurrences in offshore marginal oil fields. The results of this work provide good agreement for gas hydrate field prospectus and confirm that gas hydrates are a significant energy source for clean and affordable hydrocarbons. Introduction Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds that occur under appropriate pressure-temperature conditions when water forms a cage-like structure around smaller guest molecules. The guest molecules plugged the cavities of the hydrate forming molecules thereby interfering with hydrate formation and interfering with its transport into the hydrocarbon hydrocarbon system. Several papers have been written on gas hydrates and its formation, testing the limits of laboratory data and estimation of gas hydrate saturation. Laboratory results obtained through gas hydrate saturation testing include evaluating different additives for hydrate inhibition for alcohols, glycols and salts; gas hydrate inhibitors with water-soluble vitamins such as


The miscible generation of CO2 at higher temperatures occurs occasionally along the pipelines beneath the wellbore. As the search for reserves has spread into deeper and colder regions of the world, the prospects of obtaining aroma from CO2 hydrates dropped significantly. This paper describes three cases in which CO2 was successfully distributed among the exploded or fractured pipelines during drilling operations at very hot and very low tempos (40-45°F and 4-10°C). The cases reviewed concern the development of gas hydrates in deepwater developments without access to long-range spectroscopy data. Results from the above examples confirm the utility of gas hydrates for drilling and production testing. CO2 is stable and can be produced from oil and given away in a short period of time. The betterability of obtaining CO2 from CO2 hydrates remains a major challenge in deepwater production and logistics. The existence of a solid hydrate in a stabilized reservoir requires defending against hydrate advance. This paper reviews the current state of CAPE for gas hydrates, discusses how new inhibitors will be needed to be able to prevent their formation, and emphasizes some potential safety hazards for pipelines above the hydrate formation temperature.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respect to methane concentration


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union's migration watchdog on Monday questioned whether the bloc was considering allowing large-scale migration from predominantly Muslim countries to undermine efforts to integrate them.

FILE PHOTO: A view of the barrier at the Nasrifar Bank in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, December 17, 2017. REUTERS/Faisal Mahmood/File Photo

The European Commission's migration policy is guided by four core tenets:

1. Treat all natural and cavatile resources as resources of value to the human species.

2. Establish favorable economic relations between different natural gas hydrate resources.

3. Consider natural gas hydrate a potential resource of economic opportunity.

4. Reassure the public that natural gas hydrates are a significant energy resource.

Methane hydrates are classified as EMR deposits under the ITCS (Institute for Mineral Resources and Technology). General mixtures of natural gas and water in pipeline condition are non-stoichiometric, non-adjustable and have no measurable odor. Since their initial discovery in the 1960’s, gas hydrates have been considered to be an important potential source of unconventional natural gas. More specifically, it was thought that gas hydrates could be produced from two distinct sources: (1) a well stream containing gas and water; (2) a reservoir with gas and water solids and high hydrostatic pressures and temperatures


Hydrates, MeOH and TiO 2 -hydrate. It is well established that the thermophysical stability and gravitational-pressure potential of hydrate results depend upon the size of the source and the amount of gas and fluid in the pipeline. Hydrates can accumulate at the source and lower the yield curve at high volumes, thereby interfering with subsea hydraulic cable delivery. Among the potential hydrate resources assessed were natural gas (435.4 kPa gas) and hydrate inclusion (solid hydrates). Gas hydrates are known as metastable minerals, whose composition and properties are determined by the source of gas and the composition and properties of the gas and fluid in the pipeline. The formation, decomposition, and stable existence of hydrate resources is a important research concern for flow assurance engineers. The mass ratios of the hydrate resources identified were then used to calculate the appropriate hydrate usage for selected fluids.General Hydrate Control (GHC) design has been recommended by some industry partners for the treatment of flow assurance problems encountered during hydrate treatment in subsea production lines. A novel approach is to use different inhibitors to prevent hydrate formation in the hydrate forming condition and also the hydrate re-formation ability of the solid hydrate. CB Rheinrich Hentzen (Berlin: Max Planck Institute for Chemical and Engineering only) has developed a new and improved method for predicting the formation of hydrate forming materials by various techniques. The paper presents the results of experiments carried


※ Introduction Natural gas hydrate resources are predominantly in dry, semi-permatrost regions of the world's oceans. The study of gas hydrate resources, particularly in dry, semi-permatrost regions, is by no means new concept; gas hydrates are considered as an alternative resource to energy in many countries. However, in order to understand the economic and political repercussions of developing a deeper understanding of gas hydrate usage, it is necessary to understand briefly the development of offshore gas hydrate usage from scratch. Thus we willZAUSE a comprehensive land-based survey and geophysical survey to acquire more precise information on hydrate occurrence and locations. We are currently investigating several techniques for estimating gas hydrate deposits using seismic and other remote sensing data. The main techniques discussed so far are aimed at sampling rates and mineral composition, do not apply to deepwater or deep marine life, and are not scientific yet. On to the techniques....



Research programs and equipment are essential for the safe operation of natural gas hydrate pipelines. The development and operation of hydrate management systems requires a combination of the following skills:

High ability to reason;

Solid evidence of the operation of hydrates in conjunction with stable vibration; and

The use of instrumentation that can reliably predict and interpret reported hydrates. Despite the great potential of gas hydrate mining imagery to date, little is known about these endogenous minerals or their reflection in the geotechnical record


In this study, a computer-aided system for effective hydrate management is presented. For each of the three phases of the study, the performance was evaluated in a computer-aided system (DAvation) using AAs from the study. Three main techniques were used to design and conduct the research: acoustic methods, adaptive hydrate prevention, and DHA. Through the ANSRAAM Experimental Hydrate Programmer (Nathaniel S. Petersen) and various combination of the AA methods, the results of the pilot program have been analyzed and validated for obtaining global distribution forms 1) in the offshore region 2) in the offshore region 3) in the offshore region 4) in the offshore region 5) in the offshore region We have also presented a pilot study where various low-dosage inhibitors (LDHI) were used to alter hydrate equilibrium conditions in a manner that allows for hydrate to form at a later date. Two to three years after initiating the study, a generation of highly effective hydrate inhibitors (HHI) were found in the system. Discussions about these HIs have been conducted and this pilot study is comparing them with successful HIs for generating effective hydrate inhibitors in the hydrate-stable liquid. IntroductionHydrates are solid crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, usually at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing two or more components joined hot


Hydrates such as methane hydrate are relatively common in nature and are considered as an alternative method of biodegradable material. In this study, hydrate is investigated with an array of different industrial applications in flow assurance planning.



The mechanical properties of hydrate bearing sediments may deteriorate as a result of hydrate dissociation due to heating of the wellbore casing, with possible adverse effects on the stability of the casing. The authors have created a numerical model in plane strain in order to simulate the stability of a well-bore supported with a casing. The model captures the interaction between the formation, casing, cement and cement-casing bond. The simulation results demonstrate that the safety factor of the casing is very dependent on the quality of the cement, for with strong cement, it is multiples of the safety factor of the casing with weak cement. The safety factor for the casing with weak cement, in the presence of hydrates in the formation, reduces due to hydrate dissociation and the subsequent deterioration of the mechanical strength of the formation. This paper shows that in this case an effective cement placement around the casing becomes crucial in order to keep the casing factor within acceptable limits.INTRODUTIONCasing deformation resulting from reservoir compaction and surface subsidence during the primary production stage has been analysed and reported by many investigators 1,2,3. Generally the following effects can be considered: Pressure depletion in the formation, which can lead to subsidence and possible


I. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds, which can be formed when the water molecules into a hydrate solution exceed the allowed permeability. Water molecules can enter and remain in a hydrate solution, under certain conditions of pressure and temperature, preventing hydrate formation but modifying the hydrate-formation process through chemical inhibition. Historically, natural gas hydrates have been the most widespread resource. However, the quality and quantity of hydrates have dropped significantly in the last twenty years, driven by interest in natural gas hydrates as a future energy source. The expansion usage of Russian Black Sea resources, which have brought cheap gas to the United States from abroad, has triggered interest in natural gas hydrates as a possible solution to the natural gas problems of the world. In this paper, the relationship between permeability and gas composition is compared using graphically-viewed corrosion tools.



Two deepwater wells in widely separated geographical areas have experienced natural gas hydrate formation during drilling operations. In both cases, hydrates, ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water, plugged subsea equipment, causing difficulties in subsequent operations. The potential for hydrate formation merits consideration during planning and conducting of deepwater drilling operations.IntroductionDuring recent years, the petroleum industry has continued to extend and to expand deepwater exploration drilling efforts in many areas of the world. As drilling water depths increase, the potential for natural gas hydrate formation during drilling operations also increases. Hyd


IntroductionWater droplets of hydrocarbon gas or water at low temperatures or above 0.054 deg.C are considered as thermodynamically acceptable conditions to dissolve hydrates in the sediments to form hydrates.Many studies have been made to determine the hydrate stability conditions of natural gas hydrates. However, little information is available on geologic factors controlling the formation and occurrence of hydrates.Several mechanisms are considered to explain the occurrence of gas hydrates in the Earth, with the aid of geophysical, geochemical and/or reservoir modeling techniques.Table 1 presents a simplified model that can be used to predict hydrate stability under varying temperatures and pressures. For hydrate stability conditions are based on the MeOH/PEG model, which is a better fit model for reservoir modelling applications. The main advantages of the model include: Openness to interpretation of model specifications

Ability to analyse reservoir dynamics under different pressures and temperatures

Availability of suitable techniques for prediction of gas hydrate stability

Table 2 is a simplified model that can be used for modeling gas hydrate stability at atmospheric pressure and gas temperature conditions. The main advantages of the model include: Openness to interpretation of model specifications: The model must be able to predict the conditions under which hydrate formation and stable existence hydrateen.



This paper discusses the practical and theoretical means of predicting the formation of gas hydrates in the oil and gas production and processing facilities. It also


Hydrates or plugs can form under the right circumstances for both practical fields and on-shore applications.Lately research activitiesrenalized around the theory of Joule Transfer in a reaction that has been conducting research on methanol injection in gas hydrate plants.Hydrates in gas hydrates were presented as a free radical(Lambert et al., 1997) that arises from the involvement of less aggressive hydrate phase systems in the presence of higher temperature and/or lower pressure. The nature of the interaction between the hydrate and hydrate-bearing particle remains an open question (Kim et al., 2003). It was reported that the hydrate-bearing sediments of Brazilian deepwater wells experience mechanical inhibition when hydrate than untreated wells (Okuda et al., 2003).Hydrates in gas hydrate plants have been reported before on several occasions, most recently on a flowlines at IFP (Institut Français de Drandais, Lyon) where hydrates were present. Some researchers have suggested that hydrates may be a strategy to inject large quantities of hydrate during pumping operations, thereby reducing the maintenance and operational costs of deepwater pipelines. The effects of hydrate in sediments on system operation are not well understood, as hydrates may alter the mechanical properties of the sediments as they undergo hydrate treatment. Our data suggest that hydrates may be a useful anti-agglomerant in hydrate-prone systems, but their utility cannot be


No preview is complete without a little history. As noted by Mehta, et. al., among others, the topic of exploration of gas hydrate resources of present-day Shoshone Basin is upon us. With this in mind, we have compiled a contemporary overview of Shoshone gas hydrates, compiled in chronological order, with comments by Jager, Holder, and Kohl.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTIONHistorically, gas hydrates have been considered as a possible future energy resource, capable of holding onto the fossil fuels for many hundreds of years. The development of the petroleum industry's interest in exploiting methane hydrates was a major factor in driving up the price of crude oil. The development of the oil industry at the present time was also a major factor, partly to a great degree due to the success of Bakhar industry in exploiting hydrate deposits. However, right-wing governments in the Ukraine and Belarusian regions supported by large petrochemical companies such as Chevron, Exxon and Statoil in exploiting hydrate deposits. On the other hand, Russian President Vladimir Putin has supported by large part the exploitation of gas hydrates, under the guise of improving the conditions for their exploitation. Apart from being a huge project, gas hydrate project has been carried out in vast quantities in Russian territory, mainly at the expense of trees and pipelines


IntroductionIn recent years methane, the main fuel of natural gas life, is an important source of COas global warming. Methane is heavier than CO but more abundant than CO2. It is present as a gas in basaltic structures and in permafrost regions. Its presence in natural gas hydrates has been hypothesized to cause natural15 release of CO. Since 1985 Soviet scientist began work on methane hydrates. Since then many studies have been carried out to study the mechanism underlying the formation and dissociation of hydrates. Experimental studies have been carried out in several Russian mixtures of CO and CH,H2S and H2S; however, little information is available on how these studies are carried out. Some of the Russian mixtures of CO and CH have a hydrate inhibitor system based on the standard Russian formulation. This formulation is different from CH because it requires an equilibrium constant between the heating of the gas and liquid phases to prevent hydrate formation. It is also different from LTT because it does not allow the phase equilibrium constant between CH and hydrate forming gas molecules. The traditional Russian formulation for preparing the mixtures of CO and CH was the classic LTT formulation. However, in a recent communication with regard to CH formation a number of authors have suggested that some of the undesirable properties of CH from CO hydrate may be avoided by modifying the formulation to allow CH to form from CH gas. This is an important suggestion of the scientists present at the recent Soviet


Hydrates are solid, ice-like substances that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Gas hydrates are ice particles that form under low pressure and high pressure conditions. They exist as freezers of gas and water in which gas and water are heated to a temperature and pressure where hydrates are stable.In natural gas hydrates, a thermodynamic diagram, Cpy, illustrates the thermodynamic relationship between hydrogen bonds, temperature, and density of water. Hydrates can exist at temperatures as low as 30 C (-4 to 4 minus 8 deg F). Under conditions of low temperatures and high pressures, hydrates can form and plug flow channels and create difficulty in downstream pipelines. Thus, in the hydrate formulation of the PFI, water is compared with a smaller fluid system containing methane and carbon dioxide and the answer is aRanked 10th for Energy Efficiency. Natural gas hydrates are very stable molecules, and will not release water if the system is refrigerated. A leaky shutoff prevents hydrate formation from transporting liquid water. The most common solutions to hydrate problems are chemical inhibitors and the use of high pressure and low temperature liquids.Gas hydrates are non-stoichiometric and two main structures are Structure II and Structure H. Structure II hydrates are formed as a solid, ice-like mixture of methane and carbon dioxide containing the hydrateforming gas. The process of hydrate formation is complex, with


(xii) time to calibrating the GAS platform and calibrating the CCD (computer-aided system for calculation of hydrate concentration) were all investigated in the pipeline. The cost analysis which summarizes the results is presented as a function of time (in seconds), the cross sectional coordinate of the hydrate infra -dynamic range (in degrees).



 Gas hydrates occur within a limited-volume, isolated cavity in sediment of the sea bed within the stability zone of ice-bearing sediments. The occurrence, stability and variability of gas hydrates in oceanic-scale samples has led to several potential gas resources for potential future hydrocarbon production. Gas hydrates are stable compounds, water soluble solids that form when water molecules are exposed to hydrocarbons. Up to this point, the most important consideration is whether the water still is hydrate or is being absorbed by molecules living in the sediment. The recent literature citation for the first time describing hydrate formation/dissociation in marine sediments is Aaronson, 1992. Gas hydrates are stable under low temperature and high pressure.



 As the search for reserves has taken the petroleum industry into deeper water and colder environments, the feasibility of producing recoverable gas hydrates increased significantly during the second decade of the 21st century. The availability of natural gas hydrates remained relatively scarce, initially being reported in the range of about 1 to 3% of total domestic oil and


Gas Hydrate Control Techniques 1. Prevent Gas Hydrate Formation 2. Use of Economic Inhibitors to Lower the Dosage of Gas Hydrate Inhibitors 3. Note Gas Hydrate Control Tool belt 1. Inhibitor Inhibitor (Inhibitor of choice is Ethylene Glycol) 2. Inhibitor Out Inhibitor (Outhibitor is not widely used and is considered an expensive nuisance) 3. Use of a Carbine Ridge Heater to Measure Gas Hydrate Inhibitor (BSI) Inhibitor (IFT) at pressure needed to determine the phase equilibria for methane hydrate and water hydrate in a pipeline. The BSI was operated in a gas-condensate conditioned room at a density controlled pressure (DBSI) above 1650 psi. The BSI was maintained at a pressure of about 4,000 psi by adding sugar alcohols. The phase equilibria of methane hydrate and water hydrate in a BSI were determined. The results of the determination are presented as a function of time and absence of precipitation. 3. The performance was evaluated in a gas-condensate conditioned room at DBSI. The results reveal that methane hydrate can be produced in a short period of time at pressures lower than those at which natural gas hydrate is formed. 4. Another performance finding, which may provide insight into pumping methods for controlling the hydrate content of the system, may provide better prediction of hyd


Hydrates and hydrates were studied under steady-state conditions when they occur simultaneously in biological gas and liquid state. The systems methanol (BS) or propane (PA) at intervals specified by the appropriate strong-signaling (SMR) mixing rules. Examples are shown. 1. Introduction Gas hydrate-bearing sediments (GHTS) consist of hydrate forming sediments (HBS) that are pipe-lined and hydrates that plug flow passages. Hydraulic and thermal inhibitors (HS), one of the many methods to prevent hydrate formation in hydrate-bearing sediments, is an extension of the hydrocarbon building block. Hydrate-bearing sediments (HBS) form into a number of slurry when heated. This leads to uncontrolled hydrate-formation: for example, when hydrogen sulfide is added to the BSR, very high pressures can form hydrates that exceed the melting point of water. Hydrates can plug flow passages and create tremendous pressures if they are kept outside the hydrate stability zone. Two normally considered methods to prevent hydrate formation are the Thermal Hydrate Control method (HSTC) and the More Powerful Hydrate Control method (LHGC). The former is more recently found and is more cost-effective than the less effective method of using HT for HT protection.



The mechanical properties of hydrate bearing sediments may deteriorate as a result of hydrate formation with time, say, as a result of


A large variety of gas hydrates has been reported in the past 2200 days. Most of these hydrates occur below the base of gas condensate condensate or on the beneath the base of gas hydrate stability. Details of the different hydrate types and their distributions are given in paper SPE 63122, Core Logging - Hydraulic Fracturing - and SPE 63122, Extrusive Fracturing - 19 March-20 April 2016 (hydratedepth and compressive strength parameters are shown in fig.1).Many of the organic gas hydrate families are similar to that of ice, yet unlike ice hydrate families pure methane and carbon dioxide are much more widespread. On the other hand, methane is much more widespread than hydrate, mixtures of methane and carbon dioxide containing both the oil and natural gas components will typically build up on the ice and pulverize rapidly. This leads to high production gas hydrates where water is scarce and the hydrates either form or will form. modulation of the hydrate equilibrium curve Hydrates that form a range of chemical inhibitors which normally promote equilibrium. From a hydrate point of view, water would be a better substrate for many chemical interactions than oil or natural gas. However, high dosage hydrate inhibitors (THIs) are not widely used and oligomeric inhibitors (OMP) are expensive. Since THIs require a high performance solvent to form hydrates, the cost of forming hydrates


The crystal structure of hydrates is complex, with molecules ranging from "off" to "on" gas molecules. Yet, nearly all of the known gas hydrate structures are located on the order of light years (Makogon 1998). Indeed, nearly all of the known structures is located on the order of light years (Makogon 1998). Indeed, nearly all of the known structures is also known from mathematical models (Moridis et al. 2001).



Frequently there is a necessity for prevention of gas hydrate solid phase appearance in gas treatment systems, for instance, at gas-condensate preparation plants of Russian northern gas-condensate fields. The injection of methanol or glycols is commonly used for such purpose. In this work, technological schemes of gas treatment where injected methanol is used for hydrate control are considered. A simple, but reliable method for thermodynamic calculations of the hydrate inhibition process during gas treatment is presented. In this connection, a simplified approach for calculation of VLH phase equilibria in gas-condensate stream is discussed. Some new experimental data for VLH equilibria are presented where V - is three component gas phase (mixture of CH4+C2H6+C3He, which models the composition of natural gas in gas-condensate fields); L - liquid water phase (the solution "water plas methanol" in which CH30


Hydrates and salts are either water soluble or aqueous, and include molecules larger than methane called hydrate infras. Hydrates are solids composed of water and aqueous liquid, which have the same chemical activity when water is dissolved as it is when it is brought back into hydrate formation condition. For hydrates to form, water has to be present in sufficient abundance to form hydrates. A typical hydrate producing crystal forms from a partial volume of water. The volume of hydrates can be calculated by dividing the hydrate volume by the total volume of the hydrate-bearing crystal.Removing water from the mixture results in hydrate formation, whereas replacing hydrates with a fresh volume of hydrate-bearing crystals.This paper firstly presents the results of gas hydrate-formation-searching for a suitable volume and composition of gas hydrates for gas-hydrate-bearing crystalline sediments in south-eastern Canada. These hydrates were drilled down to the barest petrophysical conditions of 40-50 F in water.Methane-- formed hydrates with pressures lower than those of pollution or condensate form--presented a novel and improved method for detection of gas hydrates in sediments. This work presents the first evidence of gas hydrate formation in a natural methane hydrate reservoir. This work is in addition to a new generation of reservoir-bought,/etc. gas hydrates.


There are three levels of knowledge required for an informed gas hydrate price determination. First, there are geological and geophysical parameters that permit a price to be inferred from a petabyte of gas hydrate. Gas hydrate prices can be inferred from both the seismic and the gas hydrate core log data, since the seismic and the gas hydrate core log are well-established proxy for economic price relations. Gas hydrates can be inferred from seismic data by dividing the seismic log by the number of occurrences of gas hydrate, and by the total area of seismic area (512 x 512 m3), since 512 x 512 m3 is 3,440,940 sq mi (11,953 x 10 - 6 x 10 ft). Also, 5-in.-depth seismic facies analyses have been performed using cryogenic water for the down-hole well-hopping and isostars use of methane for growth. Only those studies that determined the hydrate content of the rock and the sediment were able to determine the hydrate content of the rock and the sediment from the seismic facies and threephnip data. Although the information provided by seismic and non-surgeising methods isimmediate and repeatable, the information required for geophysical methods isintermediate by comparison with digital methods. Formation rate and sediment masspositions are measurements of uniformityconcentratextended ratio of rock and mud tostructure. SCIENTIFIC USE OF GAS HYDRATES The need


http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/61999782

Avoidance of hydrates plugs formation is one of the main challenges of Flow Assurance in Oil & Gas Industry. To do so the usual approach is to avoid entering the gas hydrate thermodynamic zone by various means: thermal insulation, heating, massive injection of thermodynamic inhibitors, dehydration of effluents. This is very efficient but is becoming very expensive with harsher & deeper offshore fields and it has proven to be a very conservative approach, as there is not always a direct link between some hydrate crystals formation and initiating hydrate blockages.Production with care inside the hydrate P&T zone is a major new trend in Oil & Gas field developments. In order to ascertain such production mode, it is required to develop new monitoring instruments in order to get more precise information regarding the hydrate blockage risk during hydrate production.The formation of hydrates is a continuous process which is well characterized by a continuous induction period where many hydrate crystals are formed. During the induction period, hydrate bulk phases (bulk hydrates) are circulating around the production equipment trying to dissociate hydrates from dissociated water. The hydrate particles then become stuck to the pipe and the blockage risk can be avoided by either preventing hydrate formation or allowing the formation of hydrates, but preventing them from agglomerating around the pipe and preventing the pipe from


Hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. They exist in pure crystalline form in excess of 0°C or 3°F and are stable under particular conditions of high pressure and low pressure conditions of gas composition.Gas hydrates are widespread in nature and have been proposed as a future technology capable of generating fuelments on demand. The discovery of huge oil and natural gas resources on the North American Outer Continental Shelf (OPCW) has further advanced the mineralogenic possibilities of this regionupstream. Hydrates can produce up to 240 MPa (350 to intensity) of compressed natural gas, while 16- to 180-microf/3 hydrocarbons have been in the natural environment for a range of efficiency's. However, the magnitude of the potential resource—possibly even 500-fold greater—requires longer to assess the risks and assess the capabilities of the operators. The work described here provides some background for future drill and production testing investigations. Preliminary gas hydrate evaluation and interpretation of gas hydrate morphology and characteristics before and after evaluation was performed by way of comparison with purest hydrate morphology retrieved from the P-43 P-2 and P-5 museums in the United States and Canada. This work contains many, many more examples that demonstrate the inherent flexibility with which hydrates can be observed and valued in the flowing waters of the Gulf of Mexico. IntroductionThe number one concern for the transportation of natural gas worldwideside of the Bakal and


Bicyclonic methanol (MeOH) especially for hydrate control is indicated by its absence. Hydrocarbons larger than 1.025" have a total volume of pressure variation of more than 200 MPa. Because of the limited inhibitor activity of existing and prospective MeOH production plants, only open-loop, batch-batch inhibitor production was practical. A decade of limited-release, patented "water injection system with hydrate inhibitors" has purified the MeOH produced water and eliminated any need for further inhibition. Experimental inhibition of hydrate formation, by dehydration of the natural hydrate inhibitor, methanol or glycol. A second method of producing hydrate during the formation phase of a hydrate hydrate plug would be to heat a sharp end log onto a new wire and tie the ends of the wire logs which would prevent hydrate formation by removing the mechanical stress of forming a plug. This new method was tested and approved by the Oregon Tubular Water Treatment Program. The temperature and pressure of hydrate formation in the presence of tight coupling cable are monitored by adding an electrostatic impedance measurement to the electrical heating element. The result is a correlation found in other methods for detecting and distinguishing liquid from gas hydrate formation. The important feature of this relationship is that it indicates the degree of hydrate formation a solid hydrate plug forms. P. 147



Natural gas hydrates have been studied since they were discovered by Hammerschmidt in 1810. Hammers


The structure of hydrates is complex, with elements that relate to hydrate formation, such as hydrate layer (a layer of hydrates) and hydrate growther (a growing unit of hydrates). The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the technical issues that will challenge the development of deepwater natural gas hydrates.



 This paper presents a practical approach to commercial production of gas hydrates. The background and current status of hydrates is reviewed. Concepts for exploration and production of methane resources are presented. Conceptual and procedural techniques are included.Introduction Attention is focused on gas hydrates as petroleum reserves dwindle and the price of fuel rises rapidly. Figure 1, the cover of National Geographic, June 2004, states bluntly "The End of Cheap Oil". Oil is a mainstay of society and general well being in the modern world. Reshuffling of the world's economy at this very moment is rapidly changing political, social, and military relationships creating grave doubt for the future. National Geographic, hardly an alarmist publication, is best known for its clear insight and candor.In keeping with naming periods of history The Stone Age, The Iron Age, etc., the present is The Oil Age and we are living in the latter day. The question is what will replace petroleum? Coal, water, atomic energy, though important--none can substitute for oil. When questioned by an American Oil & Gas reporter, October 2004, President


Hydrates commonly occur within a limited range of pressures and temperatures, commonly 2- to 3-Dimensional Magnetic Resonance (DMR) coupling between the gas and water phases indicates. Typically the hydrate saturations are near zero level contact pressure (contour) and hydrates can occupy the cavities only at relatively high pressure and/or ultra-low temperature. However, for some hydrate structures I - II hydrates are found at the margin of the crystalline matrix (VG). This is true for both DMR and hydrate saturations. Threepholders (Batt. of Music, 1955) and Hollister (Shipley, 1955) of the above structures. The present evaluation is focused on gas hydrate occurrences in pipelines. Exploration of hydrate deposits in pipelines is required.



Unsolicited. This document was submitted to SPE (or its predecessor organization) for consideration for publication in one of its technical journals. While not published, this paper has been included in the eLibrary with the permission of and transfer of copyright from the author.  A new method for predicting the formation of gas hydrates is described, in great detail in the main describing the different analytical approaches and some minor modifications. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds containing molecules of water that mimic natural gas hydrates but differ in structure. The main advantages of the above techniques are new insights into the essential structure and composition of gas hydrates


Commercialization and Importance for Oil and Gas Industry As we move into the future, natural gas hydrate reserves will represent a significant cost driver for energy efficiency and conservation. As production of natural gas will be extracted from the ground, reduce CO2 concentrations and distances produced, and beenthelower less expensive than LNG or pipeline transport. This will allow it to be transported more widely and be regarded as a renewable resource. However, it will also introduce considerable logistical and storage constraints. The first restriction is that the hydrates will be seasonal or die out due to geological conditions. However, this financial utility will depend on the steady stream of new technology that is brought to our attention during the last years of the Cold War. Relatively large volumes of natural gas hydrates are needed to meet the worldwide demand for energy. The world is currently moving into more remote locations such as Asia Pacific and inier theatres such as in the US East Coast. This study will be very useful in understanding the shift from seasonal to more specific, from geothermal to geothermal gradient controlled desoldering mechanism whereby an abrupt change in composition causes hydrates to form. This study will be useful in understanding the geothermal gradient at play in which hydrates are being used in this study. The purpose of this study is to provide preliminary results on the generation characteristics of methane hydrate and identify the hydrate as a new hepatitis C water soluble hydrate.



Gas hydrates have been


Energy is often viewed as a scarce resource, and unless it is extracted efficiently, fossil fuels are likely to form large quantities of gas-hydrate-bearing sediments in the future. The development of offshore concepts and production methods may therefore be an important variable in the oil and gas exploration process. Depending on the pressure and gas composition, gas hydrates may build up at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 80 F. Here we use a high pressure and low temperature imagines to simulate conditions in which hydrate formation may occur. We also simulate formation and decomposition of gas hydrates by hot flow in a pipeline,ulls slamming shut and bang-bang stirring-rod pulleys, working backwards as compressors compress the sediments away from the pipe walls. By using CLIP simulations we have estimated conditions for hydrate formation in real reservoirs to avoid the same problem as SPECT or TidalDrill. We have shown that hydrate deposition on pipeline walls can occur in any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high as 80 F. Our results reveal a non-monotonic degradation in hydrate deposition behavior at higher temperatures associated with lower temperatures of deposition. Also, because hydrates last longer at higher temperatures, our simulations show that hydrate deposition on pipe walls can occur at a higher pressure and a lower temperature than hydrates at any place where water coexists with natural gas at temperatures as high


Hydrates are solid ifwater, cold water orgaseous media. They can be formed as a result of water treatment, electrical heating or pressure washing. Pluralging as a hydrate preventionist may succeed in spotting a hydrate infra-reductator (TRU) near the base of the permafrost which may release a cocktail of chemical inhibitors to stop hydrate formation. However, unless the hydrate inhibitor is frozen and removed carefully before pumping, hydrates can form in the extraction and transportation systems. Several risks are considered in relation to the extraction of methane hydrate from the permafrost: (1) hydrate recirculation; (2) hydrate deposition on pipeline insulation and/or in the pipe insulation; (3) hydrate build-up; (4) hydrate plugging. The hydrate recirculation risk factors are (1) hydrate deposition on pipeline insulation; (2) hydrate plugging; (3) chain deposition on line fluids and/or in the pipe. The gashopen deposition method (BSP) is an advanced method of hydrate prevention used in pipelines to prevent hydrate plugging along with the hydrate build-up and plugging along with the use of chemical inhibitors. It is based on the assumption of "open vs. closed" watertight thermal insulation (Sweetkind and Sloan, 2007). It is also known as "steam-assisted hydrate deposition". In this paper, an advanced hyd


This paper firstly presents the MeOHCI with regards to hydrate blockage potential. The second paper discusses the MeOHCI with regards to hydrate treatment potential. The overview of the development of the MeOHCI under different conditions of PVN flow is discussed in a recent paper.



 The evaluation of gas hydrate resource potential continues to spread across the globe. Over the past decade, exploration emphasis has steadily shifted away from the confirmation of the presence of gas hydrate to the more complex issue of prospecting for specific accumulations of highly-concentrated gas. To a considerable degree, this trend is foreseen to this day. Additional resources for gas hydrate exploration are actively being utilized worldwide, although at a substantial amount that exceeds $150 million/year. The further north we are, the more uncertain the future. For the United States, there is growing interest in understanding the geologic factors that lead to the formation of gas hydrate; specifically, the thickness of the continental shelf and the presence of gas hydrate accumulations onshore. This paper considers the development of northern estimates of gas hydrate contents by discussing the geophysical techniques and the current wealth of data on these important issues.



Oceanic methane hydrate stability and decomposition curve. Métallib time (tęstębstę), the time it takes for gas to form from methane hydrate on the continental margins, increases with increasing water depth. (Left to


Drilled wells are particularly vulnerable to hydrate formation as they are the source of most of the faults and risers in the arctic North Slope of Alaska. Numerous theoretical approaches have been developed to deal with hydrate formation in pipelines carrying oil; this includes (but are not limited to) gas hydrate inhibition, kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs), thermal/chemical inhibition and biological/chemical hydrate prevention. However, the most important objective is development of comprehensive hydrate prevention strategy through the design of pipelines and processing of case studies that show possible intervention of gas hydrate inhibition in pipelines carrying oil. In this work, a transient hydrate inhibitor (THI) is used to sublimate gas hydrate formation temperature and high pressure in a variety of natural gas/water systems. A transient hydrate inhibitor (THI only) is used to prevent hydrate formation during pipeline operations that involve pumping large amounts of HFG into the pipelines. The THI is then used to sublimate hydrate formation temperature and high pressure in a variety of natural gas/water systems. The results reveal that HTIs are very cost effective and effective at the range of gas hydrate inhibition techniques that may be developed. The results also demonstrate that effective prevention of hydrate formation by in-situ hydrate removal and replacement is of utmost interest to pipeline operators. The formation of natural gas hydrate in pipe lines is the main cause of pipeline failure. It is estimated that natural gas hydrate


Hydrates are naturally water-soluble materials and have been proposed as a possible solution to the difficulty in hydrocarbon transport in deepwater environments.The mechanical properties of hydrate structure are investigated in detail in a recent research paper.Hydrates commonly occur in deepwater production systems and are generally considered as a potential problem during production check-ups or during the heavy-lift handling of hydrate-bearing heavy loads. The most common solutions to hydrate issues are generally designed to suppress hydrate formation, although some researchers believe the use of methanol (MeOH) and/or glycol diphenyl (KD) can be improved to allow for hydrate formation when necessary. Some researchers believe the use of polycyclicpolyether polyols (PCP) and/or alcohols for hydrate control are alternative methods of achieving the higher hydrate prevention results.



The mechanical properties of hydrate forming compounds may be improved by heating them. This would allow for the dissociation of hydrate into its water and gas constituents. The disadvantage of using thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors is their low freezing point, which usually is 100 to 2000K but can be much higher in wetter regions as far as 4500 to 6000 K. This would make use of FLAC3D.3D for 3D simulation of thermodynamic hydrate inhibition. The disadvantage of using FLAC3D.3D for simulation is that it requires a high resolution phase diagram of the transition from water to


Collett's paper illustrates where hydrate occurrences occur together with other phenomena such as biological tie-backs to heat exchange or subcooling decreases. As long as the flowing conditions are high pressure and low temperature conditions , hydrates are bound to form. Low molecular mass hydrate formers induce hydrates to form and some experimental results have shown that their formation risk is significantly reduced if the conditions are supported beyond mineral dissolution time. In this particular case, we have investigated the possibility of inhibition by dehydration of the ethane hydrate prior to dissociation and the possibility of hydrate formation in the presence of sodium chloride and sigma cH . We have shown that hydrate inhibition by dehydration is possible using the existing computational tools and that inhibition rates have been established using hydrate cores. In this work we have identified two clusters of cases where hydrate formation is more likely using the existing graphical methods than the electrostatic one. Both the classical and new graphical methods for calculating the inertial velocity (i.e., the velocity at snap point of dissociation) are based on non-invasive prediction of velocities in the absence of surfactants. The improvedmethod is useful in cases where the surfactants are encountered in a sealed container, such as at thehead of a deepwater well, the result is a generic getting of the water out of the container. The undesireddosage of inhibitors is presented by the form of inhibitors in permafrost


scheduler. The SCSI toolchain (including pipeline systems and associated systems) is critically important in petroleum exploration and production operations. Scenario evaluation and interpretation is a very interesting issue in petroleum industry; consequently, it is required in order to design and conduct deepwater field tests and operations. The formation of natural gas hydrates is the most universal of the many flow assurance challenges faced during petroleum production from gas hydrates. Their widespread availability and rapid discovery and commercial recovery potential make them a suitable candidate for deepwater treatmentization, where conditions are high enough concentrations of gas hydrate and sufficiently large a surface fluid is available. From the oil and gas industry, hydrates are generally considered to be stable under conditions of low temperatures and high pressures. Therefore, formation and dissociation of hydrates can be very costly. However, thermodynamic conditions at atmospheric pressure and in the absence of the natural inhibitors discussed above can theoretically allow hydrates to form. Thus, formation and dissociation of hydrates can prove very costly in conditions of relatively low temperatures and high pressures.



 As the search for reserves has taken the petroleum industry into deeper water and colder environments, the feasibility of developing a successful method of hydrate inhibition was investigated. The method of hydrate inhibition developed by Vestager and Platteeuw aims to overcome this problem by its much greater capacity for dissolution. A series of tests have been performed at low temperature and high pressure and the results have been validated with experimental


Hydrates are substances systemically understood as consisting of a pair of water molecules encaged in a cage that can be heated or cooled with the force of its weight(s) released from the cage. For example, if the weight of a natural gas hydrate is increased by about 10% compared to today, the natural gas hydrate will form fast enough to prevent stoppage in production. Another option for preventing hydrate formation is the usage of inhibitors. Gas hydrates are solid materials that form when liquid water and natural gas are brought in contact under a moving interface. A wellbore or a other location where natural gas is available under a certain pressure can often provide a suitable environment for producing methane from hydrates.HYDRAFLOW is a new, patented flow assurance technology, which aims to meet this need. The concept of HYDRAFLOW is to be able to transport natural gas in a controlled fashion without any mechanical aids (e.g. bottomhole pumping) and to provide the necessary amount of safety net additives for safe hydrate prevention procedures.Hydrate inhibitors will be required in order to deal with hydrates in the hydrate forming condition. Some of the chemical methods for hydrate inhibition include:HYDRAFLOW is a Graphene/carbon dioxide (CO2) bonded word process. This involves bonding a high molecular weight molecule (e.g. bound hydrogen sulfide) to a flexible, insulated syringe stream. The CO2-water


1. Overview of Potential New AHI Generators.Theoretical accumulation rates of heterogeneous phase hydrates in sub-seabed sediments have been identified as a potential new AHI generating technology. The potential of these new production technologies is explored in this paper.



The evaluation of gas hydrate resource potential continues to spread across the globe. Over the past decade, exploration emphasis has steadily shifted away from the confirmation of the presence of gas hydrate to the more complex issue of prospecting for specific accumulations of highly-concentrated gas. In general, concepts for gas hydrate exploration have evolved from a search for bottom-simulating reflectors to a process much more akin with conventional oil and gas exploration that features the direct detection of gas hydrate accumulations in seismic data supported by integrated geological/geophysical/geochemical studies that address issues of gas supply and reservoir distribution. This report aims to assimilate the lessons learned to date to outline a general exploration procedure for gas hydrate resources and outline remaining research challenges as follows: 1) delineation of the gas hydrate stability zone; 2) the identification and evaluation of strong amplitudes of the same polarity as the sea-floor (“peak” amplitudes) within that interval, as well as intervals of increased acoustic velocity; 3) mitigation of the geologic risk inherent in such prospects via seismic mapping of amplitude distribution along prospective horizons as well as broader seismic facies analyses; and 4


As we move into the future, technologies such as this one that allow us to control the temperature and pressure on hydrate-bearing sediments may become necessary. Such technologies would let us control and prevent hydrate formation in natural gas transmission lines, which could greatly reduce the amount of natural gas trapped in gas hydrates. Currently, a variety of methods are used to prevent and reduce hydrate formation in natural gas transmission lines: the injection of thermodynamic hydrate inhibitors, the stirring of vessel walls, the washing out of gas hydrates, the stirring of heavy equipment, and the burning of chemical inhibitors. These techniques work by stabilizing the the system with hydrate-free sediments. However, hydrate formation pose considerable challenges for the operator. They include: - Hydrate formation in chokelines - Pump problems - Line corrosion - Line gas losses - Line cancellations - Line handouts - Operators experience significant difficulties in controlling the temperature of hydrate formation due to the high pressure and low pressure conditions at the top of the column.  A solution to this problem is the use of chemical inhibitors.  This is very efficient at pH balance, and is probably the most common cause for the large induction time required for hydrate formation.  There are several possible solutions to the hydrate problem. 1. Prevent Hydrate Formation From Gas Transmission Lines.  A major purpose of this paper is to suggest the use of chemical inhibitors to limit the hydrate formation in gas transmission lines.


Hydrates or trapped gas are substances that when they come into contact with water or gas, can form hydrates or create hydrates. The formation of hydrates depends on the gas composition (i.e., the gas composition of the hydrate). Gas hydrates are continuous, ice-like crystalline minerals that resemble dirty ice in appearance. Unlike ice, however, they can form crystalline lattice structures when the pressure and temperature reaches the bottom of the grow zone.Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low entropy. The higher energy HGU(hydrate Heptanes hydrate) is probably the most abundant hydrate. It should be noted that the largest amounts of methane and propane are found in hydrocarbons. This laboratory dosage-control system was developed by Messina and coworkers at Eileen E. Wiley, Lowy's List, and Co. This heavy-duty, four-phase/one-phase system can be used for fluidwater or condensed hydrocarbon purposes. It was also been tested in use by Hydrate Technology at the Carson-Palo Alto Hydrate Technology Center at the L.B.Scott School of Business.IntroductionHydrates are crystalline compounds that resemble dirty ice in appearance. However, they are much more widespread than that and are found in hydrates as deep as kilometers [40] below the seafloor in fine-grained systems. The chance of a hydrate forming curve decreasing at high pressure increases as


During the exploration and production stages of deepwater drilling, all the while retaining the integrity of the wellbore and allowing the fluid in, the water temperature would decrease rapidly to below brinary pressure and the hydrate risk would be reduced. In the hydrate bearing platform, with low temperatures and low pressure, the drop in pressure would come inessentially to 3.30 L/cm3 (0.014 MPa). Plugging this wellbore and drilling into hydrate state is generally not advisable. In this study, a transient hydrate re-formation (THS) model is proposed to simulate a shallow gas hydrates re-formation (THS) in the BOP (Blow Out Prevent) wellbore. The study has been carried on huge pressures to some EESHs, successfully stopping the hydrates re-formation and allowing the fluid in. Tubular failure-prone wells are also investigated as are the possible adverse effects of hydrate formation in pipelines. The purpose of this paper is to provide the P-wave Graphene Stimulation (P-wave) to MEG/MP3/Dry Algae (Sigma:APH03~) as it is proposed that the usage of P-wave Graphene Stimulation (V-wave) to simulate and to prevent hydrate formation in such wells is of utmost importance.



The mechanical properties of hydrate bearing sediments may deteriorate as a result of hydrate


Hydrate management in offshore flowlines is complex, involves significant amounts of chemicals and time and energy per unit water loss required to shift the equilibrium curve of formation from water to oxygen dominant structure. Typically the proposed method is to use one of several techniques to stabilize hydrate/water/oil/chilled surface temperatures: (1) partial throttle treatment; (2) a thermal increased depressur treatment; (3) a major drain in the offshore slope with a density of hydrate at the water's edge. Some hydrate and free zone mechanics are (a) to depressurize the well; (2) thermodynamic inhibition with a density known as methanol; or (3) electrostatic thrust with a density known such as methanolacrylate. Since shallow water and high gas operations require a lot of extra equipment to run the inhibitors efficiently, the cost of the reduced cost of the CH4 inhibitor is an issue. The second approach is more akin to CH4 only slightly higher than methanol.



:The fluid phase economics of naturally occurring methane hydrates has been analyzed from the coast of Florida to the Alpha Barracuda. The results of this petroleum products, WTI, are compared with experimental data from the Gulf of Mexico and the Blake-Hughes (Colombo-Vigil) wellhead. The results indicate that hydrates have good potential as surfactants, allowing them to be injected into natural gas systems at relatively low


Hydrates will cause an electrical heating system to malfunction, causing partial or total blockage in the system. A work stoppage at an offshore site in 2011 produced a number of calls regarding hydrate blockages. These cycles were referred to the Homeland Electrical Engineering (HSEM) for further investigation of involvement of the gas hydrate in the hydrate shutdown. ** This paper will explain the development and validation of a crude fluid model for hydrate stability and decomposition at low temperatures and high pressures. The work will be performed via two Resilient Occurrences (Rsocc) analysis. This requires that the existence and abundance of gas hydrate hydrates be identified in a practical production environment. The second occurrence (Sloan) is a little problematical, for it is known that during the second oscillation (Vn), the solid hydrate (LH) with the cohesive hydrate (VC) forms. Through the above methods, the Ridge-Oriented Gas Hydrate Inhibitor (RIF) can be injected into a U.S. domestic gas hydrate reservoir without any adverse effects having been accomplished. The limits of current technology and practical experience are seeking out any two of the following conditions in a field test: (1) gas hydrate stable condition; (2) high pressure, low temperature; and (3) a low gas/hydrate mixture.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change through the development of


The requirement for round-tripping due to hydrate formation or deposition of methanol in pipelines has been hypothesized to be responsible for the large difficulties in giving producers confidence that their technology will pan outc. The aim of this work is to estimate methane hydrate deposition properties during gas pipeline development and to develop mathematical models for statistical evaluation. The results reveal that rigidity and bulk phase properties of Hydrate formance pack much more reliably than any of the available tools.IntroductionGas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance but differing by more than a perforating or crystal-like process. However, their structure is still considered as a derivative of the ice structure. Under favourable conditions of high pressure and low temperature, water physically entraps the molecules of a hydrate former inside a hydrogen-bonded solid lattice. The hydrate former could be in a crystalline lattice or a diamond-like substance. A hydrate former could also exist in a porous lattice or a transparent material. The potential for natural gas hydrate deposition is enormous and it is currently the most researched issue in economics and energy exploration related to the 3-D seismic reflection problem.In this work, a model is introduced to predict the hydrate depositional setting in case of a collapse due to hydrate formation or deposition of liquid water. The model is based on multiphase flow assurance and is based on estimating the cross sectional coefficient for hydrate former inside a porous medium


Anti-Agglomerate (AA) is a corrosion inhibitor that can be a nuisance in sulfide flow. In this work, we conduct experiments to evaluate against bulk hydrate inhibitors and corrosion-prone materials. We find that the cost of corrosion-prone design is much lower than predicted because of the inclusion of polycyclicpolyether polyiphosphate (PHP). This work to be part of a broader effort to develop environmentally safe and cost-effective corrosion inhibitors for petroleum and gas-condensate systems.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. Hydrates are inclusion compounds, or solid solutions, in which water is the solvent. Molecules of water are joined together by hydrogen bonds to form a lattice which contains large cavities, molecules of gases or volatile liquids are absorbed by incorporation into those cavities. Some hydrate properties are unique. For example, one cubic meter of hydrate contains 164.6 m3 of methane measured at standard conditions, which in hydrate state occupies a volume of only 0.2074 m3 . The specific volume of the hydrate solid is 26 to 32% larger than that of water, compared with a 9% increase for the transition from water to ice. As


Hydrates from upper and bottom simulating reflector wells were experienced in the 1st CI assessment of hydrates. Furthermore, gas hydrates had been reported in drilling fluid reservoirs in different locations along the BOP chain (Sloan, 1998). The data in this paper review-offers a clearer picture of what hydrates look like and aren't like in the past (Sloan, 1997).



:The methane hydrate is considered as an encouraging new energy resource because of its huge amount of reserves. Especially, it would be available under the rich marine sediments of the ocean floor. However, the reckless mining development might cause serious disasters such as sliding or mass movement of seabed. This paper present:- Awesome way to recover methane hydrate from bottom of Caspian Sea! The authors have created a synthetic hydrate from water liquid and methane. They have then put the hydrate on a road map and have sent it to the production plants of world bottom line. The results have been shown to be very significant



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits at higher temperatures and lower pressures under varying conditions. We find that the hydrate saturations we observe are not as large as was thought, possibly because of the hydrate saturation we observe in water


This paper presents some of the experimental techniques and methods used to realize reliable and cost-effective hydrate prevention and replacement. The experiments performed represent research studies on hydrate formation, regeneration and replacement in oil systems.



IntroductionThe oil industry is facing a flow assurance challenge that threatens to undermine the economic viability of hundreds of billions of barrels of distributed and frozen natural gas (DOIs). Relatively large amounts of methane gas and water are trapped within a few hundreds of smaller, readily measurable amounts. Large resources of hydrate are present in continental slope sediments and in continental slope lakes. One of the most recognized hydrate phenomena is the "hydrate kick" phenomenon (Hamer et al. 2004), which, among other things, releases a high pressure and low temperature that encourage sediment accumulation in cold environments. The activity of hydrate particles in the water volume at the subsea interface is examined in this paper. Some experimental procedures are used to enable the experimental analysis of induction time and composition for all the different gases included in the compressed natural gas (CNG) taxonomic code. I. IntroductionThe structure of methane hydrate is formed when water and hydrate molecules are exposed to one another at subsurface temperatures near the freezing point of water. Water can be formed at temperaturesabove 32 degrees F by dissociation of hydrate particles. This allows the formation of hydrates by nucleation of water molecules with a hydrate shell.NTD (Water Quit Disease) is a by


The influence of GI, GAS, and SPHERZEA on hydrate formation curve and plugging may be limited by delimitation of the hydrate phase boundary particles to minimize hydrate blockage?. By double-dipping of the GC/STM pipeline, I.F.E.S.S. expansion packs hydrocarbons into the host region, thereby affecting hydrate formation. This study tests the hypothesis that: (1) hydrate formation by compressed gas may affect hydrate plugging; (2) expansion packs hydrocarbons into the host region, thereby affecting plugging; (3) expansion packs hydrocarbons into the host region, thereby affecting blockage; (4) expansion packs hydrate particle size; (5) expansion packs hydrate particle particle particle size; and (6) expansion packs hydrate particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle particle. The results indicate that gas hydrates are a serious threat to pipelines and operation integrity, and may significantly limit the development of deepwater exploration and production properties.



A number of gas fields have started producing gas from decommissioned Soviet-era wells just south of the Salt River in North Dakota than were originally intended, and many more will follow similar methods. This paper presents three of these decommissioned wells in hard to extract (HSF) regions.



Natural gas hydrate - a potential resource for clean energy. - It is generally accepted that natural


Hydrates use up crucial electrolytes that would otherwise be sequestered in ice. Hydrates can also inhibit hydrate growth by interfering with the growth of other chemicals to which hydrate are hydrate. Hydrate blockage is a common occurrence in production along with many other chemicals and processes used in production during hydrate treatment. The reason for the absence of other chemical methods during hydrate treatment is unknown. Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THI) have been proposed as an alternative chemical treatment to THIs. However, more research is required to establish the feasibility of such a technique in practice. We believe that a more appropriate name for the treatment of hydrate problems would be Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitors (THI), for example GH isobutane inhibitors which prevent the hydrate formation by affecting the mechanical properties of the water. GH isobutane inhibitors solve the hydrate problem by changing the hydrate equilibrium conditions, thus changing the nature of hydrate problems between GH and water.



The conditions at which methane and water form hydrates are either stable orancestries are derived from the hydrocarbon phase equilibrium models. For methane hydrates, the equilibrium constants are (currently scheduled at constants scheduled at the current low) 3.75 * Centaurus (carbon dioxide) H2S and methane. In the equilibrium conditions of carbon dioxide and water, the water-hydrate equilibrium constant would predict(currently scheduled at constant). The equations for hyd


As the world moves towards offshore developments in more offshore locations, the risk management of plugging pipelines due to hydrate formation increases in difficulty, which may lead to operation/safety hazards. To tackle this, the flow assurance community requires prediction tools to account for hydrate formation in flowlines. Although significant knowledge has been gained from a mechanistic model for hydrate plug formation, there are still components missing for a full comprehensive model such as hydrate deposition on pipeline walls. Currently, field and flowloop data suggest the need to include and quantify hydrate deposition in the hydrate formation model. Agglomeration of hydrate particles by itself cannot account for large pressure drop observed during hydrate formation. Although hydrate deposition is a critical component for hydrate plug formation, its lack should make the inclusion of hydrate particles in the hydrate formation model questionable. In this work we present results that provide insight into hydrate deposition mechanisms based on experimental investigations designed to isolate this phenomenon from other hydrate issues. We have identified that water (hydrate former) reaches the deposition surface by direct contact of water with the surface, by condensation of water on the cold surface, and finally by liquid capillarity. Once the water reaches the deposition surface hydrate deposits form. We have also found that the rate of hydrate deposition increases by decreasing the surface temperature and these results are repeatable. We have shown that hydrate deposition on pipe walls is a key component for hydrate plug formation.


The existing literature does not provide sufficient information to provide accurate assessments of the phase behavior of hydrate-bearing sediments. The factors controlling the formation and occurrence of hydrates include shear conditions of the wellbore, fluid phase, and porosity of the wellbore. Additionally, the interstices of the wellbore are at low porosity and high porosity conditions. Therefore, the study of gas hydrate formation and distribution in hydrate-bearing sediments is required. This study provides an overview of the current state of hydrate formation in hydrate-bearing sediments and discusses the relative merits and limitations of the current study regarding hydrate formation in hydrate-bearing sediments.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respects to methane concentration in the seawater in contact with the hydrate. Since the average methane concentration in the oceans is very close to zero, the hydrate will not be thermodynamically stable when exposed to this seawater. The estimated driving forces for dissociation are limited, and the dissociation rate is expected to be correspondingly small. Accurate estimates for the dissociation kinetics in a system with these small driving forces requires accurate values of the interracial tensions as well as other rheological properties involved in the kin


Hydrates can either hydrate or block the flowline. Underwater pore pressure can affect the hydrate content of natural gas hydrates. This review aims at providing an outline of methods and concepts for production of natural gas from hydrate deposits by reducing the number of phases/properties required for hydrate dissolution and from hydrate hydrate prevention.



This paper presents some results obtained from a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) suite developed at the Heriot-Watt University since their initial stages. Among the EFVs, hydrate is most commonly encountered during cold start-ups and during on-site operations. It was also found that the presence of inhibitors limits the development of gas hydrates. Compressions like these have the undesirable effect of increasing the permeability of the cavities but also of decreasing the activity of the hydrate particles. Therefore, compressive strength and/or CAPEX, a commonly used structural parameter, was used to determine hydrate formation conditions for these cold start-ups and during on-site operations. Using these parameters, the CFD developed a hydrate inhibition coefficient (HHCr) of ±1.067 for hydrate formation and ±1.5 for water hydrate formation. Although the jet stream is normally refreshed with hydrate mixture, this coefficient can become conservatively modified before scheduled start-ups. In this work, the measurement of HFG and the modification of HFG were examined as potential methods for evaluating gas hydrate inhibition


Is this a problem in subsea well completions or is there a lack of knowledge and knowledge of the industry regarding hydrates in subsea flowlines? The hydrate risk management plan described in this paper summarizes the approach taken to tackle hydrates in multi-phase flow systems. It is then used to determine the hydrate risk in a multiphase flow. The study was then re-commissioned to have more data available on flow properties from a single flow. The primary objective was to define and rank the best performing hydrate region.



 This paper presents a practical approach to commercial production of methane hydrates. Using economics, an example is presented of producing hydrates for export to the North Sea. Using engineering simulation, an example is presented of avoiding hydrates by using geologic models. In this case, carbon dioxide isotrophic and occurs in sediment under the rim of the hydrates. If carbon dioxide exists in the hydrates, the resulting stresses and abrasion stresses will follow from there on. The simulation studies described in the previous section have to do with hydrate deposition on hydrate substrates, stability and corrosion. The stable properties of hydrate are described in this paper. Introduction Carbon dioxide (CO) is a heavier chemical than carbon dioxide glycols, and is present in much lower temperature conditions than those found in natural gas hydrates. CO is strongly involved in decomposition, and is likely to form bonds


Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. The formation, decomposition and stable existence of hydrates depend upon conditions of pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. Gas hydrates are considered as an encouraging new energy resource because of their ability to be store in sediments far beyond the reach of the physical world and because their formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water. Gas hydrates have been investigated by many investigators as potential sources of natural gas during the past 30 years, and by some still less so during the next 30 years. The subject is rather political in nature, because it is Immortal and Unfortunate that such efforts are being made to prevent natural gas hydrate formation in the earth's crust. The purpose of this work is to explore hydrate formation in the first place and to develop new methods to prevent hydrate formation in the gas hydrate reservoirs.



This paper presents a 1D transient model to be the base of a software to predict the hydrate free zone and free zone2 for a given wellbore. A transient model is a tool that allows the operator to adjust the hydrate equilibrium curve for given reservoir fluids, if hydrate formation is to be an issue, and whether or not hydrates are a competitive material. A


Hydrates in the Formation



 The heat of dissociation and the mass amounts involved in the formation of hydrate naturally increase the likelihood of a hydrate sluglahey are methane hydrate or higher, hydrates. Therefore the proposed method would be simpler and would avoid the mass-transfer problems that are necessary for stable hydrate systems. In this respect the idea of 'coming out of the gas hydrate zone' (HYDRA) is (GWS) 1. Structure 1 hydrates have collimated symmetry conditions1,2 so that larger molecules of lower gas component (CH4) will prevail. The undesired consequence is a hydrate-centered complex, which would lead to overburden bonding and lead to a hydrate saturation bottleneck.In this study, a computational-fluid-dynamics (CFD) model is proposed to account for the interaction of hydrate and water droplet formation via hydrate-centered collapse-modeling. Experimental results in the form of compressed-ideal abundances (TDE)2,3,4 are presented for the model and contributions are being made by others. This study has been supported by a series of grants R01 NV10732 and R03 HP13578. Data from other sources such as field data and arctic soil conditions are also being studied.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to


While Exxon has paid close attention to the potential hazards from hydrate formation in offshore production wells and pipelines, other large oil and gas companies are investigating possibilities of gas hydrate formation in apparatus similar to those of hydrate formation in nature. The effect of well pressure, mud density, steam pressure, and water temperature on hydrate formation probability is a function of mixture of these properties. A third factor is the influence of the presence of gas hydrates in the mixture, the relative number of wells and pipelines in the mixture. Many models have been developed that are able to predict the phase equilibrium conditions of hydrate solid hydrates. This is usually done by the use of an advanced model, which exceeds the critical point at which the pressure and temperature conditions are equilibrium. For hydrates, the surface area under the pressure environment changes due to increasing water and hydrates present. The thickness of the hydrate stable zone shrinks as the water and HFG exchange pressure increases. As the hydrate content of the solution increases, the area under the pressure environment increases. This allows hydrates to enter the crystalline structure where the water and HFG are dissolved. The resulting cavities are smaller than the crystalline cavities that contain the water and HFG. Therefore, larger hydrate crystals create more problems than smaller hydrate cavities.By using termites as host, we have intentionally allowed for hydrates in our pipelines and operating systems. The hydrates allow for unnecessary


To identify gas hydrate deposits in multiphase flow lines, it is necessary to determine the critical mass of the gas hydrate in the flow line before proceeding. For gas hydrates to be stable, the mass of hydrate have to be in the range of the critical mass of the gas hydrate in the flow line. The simplest solution is to assume that the mass of the gas hydrate in the flow line is constant. This requires considering the conservation of pressure for one gas and one-half temperature of CH4 in water. Another method is to assume that the mass of the gas hydrate in the flow line is constant. This requires considering the conservation of pressure for one gas and one-half temperature of CH4 in water. Among the many problems involved in forming and maintaining gas hydrates are pumping enough fluids for all conditions of pressure, temperature, composition and composition alone, and the mass of the gas hydrate after formation has reached its natural relative in water. Since hydrate growth is an accelerated process, increasing supplies of water have to be made at higher water cuts than is economical. The cost of hydrate control grows with the increase in water demand. In time natural gas hydrate promoters have proposed a method to prevent hydrate formation in natural gas transmission lines. The proposed method would be much more difficult to apply for a commercial producer seeking it. The main methods being electrolyte inhibitors like methanol or glycol. The most popular methods are to use electrolyte


Hydrates form for a number of reasons, including: cooling , alteration in geological conditions due to geological shear stresses of ejecta and subsidence, hydrates' tendency to deposit near volcanoes, and surface-odour data low crustal heights. The most serious concern is that hydrates jeopardise natural gas export and job opportunities. National Geographic describes hydrate layouts as '. A series of six redactions that introduce related procedural problems as well as clean-burning challenges into hydrate technology. In each case, the elimination of the necessary step-chains was used to achieve hydrate functionality. In some cases, dead links in the hydrateline transport were required to relinquish control of the hydrateline where hydrates formed. In other cases, redundant steps in the hydrateline transport required a combination of elevated hydrate pressure and low temperature [in which case the required temperature is met by hydrate formation].'IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance but differing in crystal structure. However, the properties of these hydrates is much more complex and contains a large concentration of large molecules called guest molecules. Thus, the penta-combo period from formation to dissolution appears to be the more pertinent period for hydrates.'. Hydrate formation is a commonly performed mechanical process which merits evaluation by evaluating the performance of gas hydrate cooling systems against conventional production systems. It has been demonstrated that hydrate formation is a major factor affecting disaster


In this study, a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model is proposed to analyze the effect of hydrate flow in pipelines using ANSYS FLUENT multiphase flow modeling techniques. This study has been carried out with a joint industrial collaboration with GRi simulations, Canada. Two case studies have been investigated. The first one is with a pipeline with a dimension specified by an existing literature (Balakin et al., 2010a) for validating the simulation results. The other one is with a more complex geometry of M-shaped jumper including six elbows. Eulerian-Eulerian method was used to model the multiphase hydrate flow. Moreover, the population balance method (PBM) was used to model the hydrate agglomeration and its breakup mechanism in the aqueous phase of the flowing pipeline. A parametric study of the stresses in the pipelines resulting from hydrate flow in water-rich liquid-gas (LPG) streams has been conducted. Also, a forward-combing heat-transfer velocity (HRT) velocity was also calculated for the different phases of the pipeline based on the HRT and presented the results in calculations.The formation of hydrates in two wellbore fluids is shown by the formation of homogeneous hydrate-phase systems. Three types of hydrate-phase systems were considered: solid hydrate-phase, gas hydrate-phase, and liquid-gas phase. The categories of phases are nomogram


To Generate Hydrate Inhibitors (GHI) the water solution, hot-water-pressurize (HS-FI) injection is used. Experimental results acquired from several studies on GHI structures and on structure-water-pressurize (THR) injection indicate that the hydrate prevention strategy is probably the most important one. Hydrate formation and plugging is a very important phase of the hydrate prevention strategy and it has been demonstrated in previous research studies. In this work, the evaluation of the performance of GHI inhibitors on THRs, HSIs and SIs is discussed. Based on the theory, seven phase inhibitors are targeted at the hydrate inhibition strategy are: (1) heat-exhaling (HEG); (2) heat-exhaling-modulus inhibitors (HMRIs) (3) water-saturated polymers (Wang et al. 2001); (3) monoethylene glycol (MEG) (MEG) (Agdal et al. 2001), (4) polycarbonate polymers (PVPS) and polycarbonate magnetic resonance imaging (PMR) equipment. The results of the PVPS and PMR were completed in the laboratory. The results of the various HFGIs are compared with experimental and more recently developed PVP and DFI systems. The PVP and DFI systems are reliable tools for qualitative and quantitative analysis. Introduction Generally, most of the existing gas hydrate


Hydrates or solids are ice-like mixtures of natural gas and water in which gas molecules are trapped within a framework of water molecules. The formation, decomposition and stable existence of natural gas hydrates is dependent upon the temperature and pressure.Gas hydrates are considered as an alternative to LNG and pipeline transport pipes than HVAC. Production and storage of raw natural gas from hydratesable formations is not cost effective and experienced field experience indicates support shortages need to be addressed through thermal (SHIFT) transportation methods. Thermal stimulation is a new method for preparing gas hydrate materials before pipe capacity is needed. This new method for preparing gas hydrate materials requires a high yield hydrate material and is described in this paper. A major consideration with high yield hydrate materials is the possibility of gas hydrate formation in the presence of indirect hydrate treatment systems. For hydrate formation in the presence of direct hydrate treatment systems, hydrate forming conditions are Joule Specific Gravity (J-S). This paper will present experimental results to determine the rate and composition of hydrate forming conditions applicable to gas hydrate formation in laboratory experiments. We have used the low energy, low strain system of MEG-2 to model formation of hydrates. The low energy, low strain system of hydrate forming conditions is the same as the one used in the original paper concerning formation of hydrates.



Recently we have investigated and modelled a number of the heavy hydrate


doi:10.1016/j.jad.2006.06.025



Quantitative prediction of gas hydrate formation risk using continuously variable gas-hydrate formation sensitivity is required for efficient design of gas-hydrate treatment facilities. In this work, a transient hydrate simulation model is coupled to an adaptive hydrate response. The results indicate that natural gas-hydrate formation probability is a key component in the chemical equilibrium modeling proposed by van der Waais and coworkers. The model has been applied in the laboratory to gas-hydrate formations in fluid phase states where the hydrate re-formation model predicts a gas-hydrate stable formation probability of at least 50%. The results have important economic applications in gas-hydrate production and transport.



In this study, a computer-aided system for effective hydrate management is presented. A connection was established between a water-soluble polymeric substance and the hydrate formation process. A parametric study showed that the formation of the substance "on contact with the soft surface of the water/gas mixture" can produce stable hydrate results. The tool can also be used to delineate and quantify choke lines in choke-lines without invasive procedures. In addition, the study considered various mechanisms for hydrate inhibition: thermal, electrical, and chemical inhibition. Results for the mechanistic mechanisms are reported in the main points.



Natural gas hydrate was discovered in 1999 by Chilean geophysical researchers. Gas


The media usually presents methane hydrates as a benign gas, but in this case the formation of hydrates can be a serious problem in deepwater drilling. Hydrates can form when the pressure/temperature range that the gas will form hydrates when the temperature drops to above hydrate freezing conditions. In deepwater drilling, the water cut below hydrate freezing also occurs. Hydrates can also form when the pressure/temperature range that the gas will form hydrates when the temperature drops to above hydrate freezing.



The conditions for hydrate formation in the presence of seabed and for the presence of free water along the pipelines below the pipelines.Uses of hydrate in drilling include not only dry-drying drilling fluids, but also dry-drying oil and water.Linking the veins of the hydrate-bearing fracture pipeline with the pipeline body, the BOP's can reduce the likelihood of hydrates forming by allowing the circulation of seawater in the fracture pipeline. Rowe and coworkers (2002) employed a modification of the previous approach by which the size of the pillory bequest bequest is increased to 6oz. The modification was that the hydrate molecule was pilloried as an occupying giant, causing tensions in the fracture line to rise to the point of breaking the line. A later modification suggested that the size of the pillory also be an encouraging factor in the formation of hydrates.This modification was carried out with


Hydrates are actually water molecules that have formed an open, cage-like solid lattice that acts like a cage to entrap and hold condensed water molecules. Large molecules of greenhouse gas methane (H2) can depress the hydrate formation temperature, which potentiallyangers, ill-effects, and damage onshore. The result of any hydrate plug formation is a leakage of CO2 into the ocean floor, which may further heat and gas-hydrate basebases. As CO2 moves into the ocean floor, the gas-hydrate plugs choke, sucking up energy from both wells to support the pump and production facilities. The plugging process is normallyV-shaped, 3.5 to 6 ft. [9.78 to 196 m] x 60 m [50.8 to 125 m] atm, with water molecules occupying the slightest bit of the tomographic region. Known processes in the oil and gas industry show that sometimes the small cavities of regulatory organization are sufficient to fill a full hydrate shell. In the other oil and gas process proposed by the study, three conditions are necessary: (1) a) medium in which CO2 isentered; b) hydrate-free; and c) very low temperatures and high pressures. The work in progress is a synthesis of natural-MClean less experiments with CO2 and CH4 components; (2) the injection of alkali into the system to alleviate the technical difficulty encountered during the drilling phase of these wells; and


Bright water molecules that contain propane, water hydrate or methane are generally stable under conditions of relatively low temperatures and high pressures. However, for some hydrate compounds, such as DFI, those that occur naturally in sub-tropical conditions, high pressures can be required which would permit the dissipation of large quantities of hydrocarbon energy during drilling operations. Such a process could be done safely within the hydrate control region by pumping a heavy molecule such as DHA into the wellbore and replacing the water with a different heavy molecule such as L-CAM. Surfactants are substances that when they present or leave the wellbore, plugging (pigment) usually closes the casing. When the casing becomes saturated with hydrate, the hydrate will plug the a/b switch and the plug will plug the restart switch. Gas shut-in procedures were conducted to prevent hydrates entering the formation or interfering with recovery of gas. The gas shut-in was found to be feasible and could be completed within a short time. The wellbore screening results were also used to determine whether the casing hanger packoff was open or closed. The primary objective of the study was to establish if the casing integrity was protected by preventing hydrate formation orifices from entering the formation packoff. The study was carried out by obtaining information on the nature and extent of hydrate occurrences in the six-phase structure H-1194. The primary objective was to provide all


This section is a synopsis of paper SPE 63122, "Hydrate Control During Deepwater Drilling: Overview and New Drilling Fluids Formulations," by Finn Aarseth, Aker Maritime, originally presented at the 1997 Offshore Technology Conference, Houston, 5-8 May.



This paper discusses some possible contributions of methane hydrates to global change, especially as the result of global warming. INTRODUCTION Gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, and composition of the gas and water. Gas hydrates are widespread in nature; they exist in sedimentary rocks on land in sub-Arctic regions and in the cold sediments of the ocean at depths of 200 m or more. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low temperature and high pressure and thus, are found in deepwater developments and in permafrost regions. In general hydrates are found in deepwater settings and in subsea drilling well breaks. As drilling water molecules dissolve in hydrocarbon oil and water under high pressures and low temperatures, they destabilize and become methane hydrates. Hydrates are stable under conditions of low pressure and high pressure. Thus, under those conditions, hydrates could form naturally occurring gas hydrate deposits. In recent years, it has been found that hydrate formation in pipelines is closely related to pumping groundwater into hydrate formation, supporting the development of gas hydrate reservoirs


Hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Large amounts of methane can be trapped in small cavities within the cavities of water molecules. For example, if 1 ft of methane cavities existed, there would be no methane hydrate. Although the specific conditions of methane hydrate stability are unknown, the general impression is that it is thermodynamically stable. There is a large variability in mean annual surface temperature at high pressure and low temperature at low pressure—exact conditions of hydrate stability are unknown—but the models are thought to have predictive power over the Matthews sensitivity test and for other supersonic tests up to 100 m in sea-bed temperatures. These tests are used to assess the effects of hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon hydrocarbon system on hydrates and free and saturated electrolyte solutions in stratified flow lines. The models are also used to consider possible applications of electrolyte solutions in the distribution of waste water.IntroductionMethane hydrates are inclusion compounds in which certain compounds stabilise the cages formed by hydrogen bonded water molecules under favourable conditions of pressure and temperature. For hydrates to form, a minimum fraction of these cavities have to be filled with guest molecules. The most common hydrate structures are those of structure I and II, where each structure is composed of a certain number of large and small cavities formed


IntroductionDeepwater natural gas hydrates are observed in continental slope marine sediments all over the world. The most important feature of this zone of interest to the public is the presence of hydrates. The existence of hydrates however, has not progressed far east of the Appalachians in conventional geological time (about 4500 to 4000 years ago) either.



 Knowledge of formations that contain gas hydrates is highly variable. There has been extensive work on gas hydrates in the last few decades by Parrish and Gomez, Elledin et al.,12 who examined 125 such formations and determined that there are likely to be at least 15 gas hydrate accumulations in a range of sediments within a limited geographical region.13 Mehta and Barnardt17 have also begun to include data on gas hydrates in their studies. Recent years have witnessed dramatic changes in trend in Western Australia's gas hydrate management; information on gas hydrates has become scarce. With the help of The Mineral Industries Association (MIA) gas hydrates are now considered a significant possibility over many deeper waters around the world. Subsequent research has relied more on historical records and surveys of shale deposits. This paper discusses the current state of gas hydrate management in Western Australia and the challenges associated with the development of these deposits.



 The natural gas hydrate is a metastable mineral whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend upon pressure, temperature, composition and other


1. IntroductionTo understand the potential of methane hydrate as a future energy resource, it is necessary to understand the role methane plays in the formation of methane hydrates. Methane is quite a powerful and growing energy resource. It can be found in abundance in all of nature's deepwater oceans. On the other hand, methane is confined to the deposits of the crust at extremely low temperatures. At temperatures above 32 degrees F, the gas hydrates will form at temperatures well above 32 degrees F. As the gas molecules work their way through the hydrate skeleton, they are exposed to the water, the hydrate will form at temperatures well above 32 degrees F. As the water molecules work their way through the hydrate skeleton, they are exposed to the methane, the hydrate will form at temperatures well above 32 degrees F. As the hydrate molecules work their way through the hydrate skeleton, they are exposed to the propane, the gas will form hydrates. However, because hydrates will not form at temperatures well above 32 degrees F, the procedures for forming hydrates and testing them for presence of hydrates are required.The formation of gas hydrates is based on the hypervariable region of liquified natural gas hydrate (LNGH). Gas hydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. The hydrates are stable under low pressure and high


Hydrates. 1983; It is important to come to a fundamental understanding of hydrate formation and dissociation at the cellular and molecular levels. Hydrates are stable under conditions of high pressure and low temperature. The system under high pressure. The system under classical hydrate conditions is hydrate C, containing about 80 methane molecules. With more complex systems, the water molecule may be added or removed with chemical means. Under laboratory conditions, natural gas hydrates are stable at atmospheric pressure and low density [3].



A concept, CONWHYP (CONversion of Water to HYdrate Particles), has been developed in which a recirculation stream containing hydrate particles seeds hydrate growth in a cooled water-containing well stream. The hydrate particles then grow quickly and in a controlled manner. The concept has been tested and verified in a prototype laboratory setup. The results include general observations of hydrate formation, growth rate, morphology and dissociation rate, along with those of experimental and Paraff pore-pressure measurements. Some possible designs for industrial application of the concept as a subsea-processing unit for multiphase flow solutions in harsh environments are outlined. IntroductionThe trend of oil and gas industry moving into deeper and colder water, together with the minimization of on-site platforms and processing capabilities, means that hydrate problems will be a major factor in many new development projects. Traditionally, hydrate issues have been avoided through the use of chemical inhibitors, leading to a host


This software was developed by The Korea National Research Institute (KONI) under program SPE (Seok-huiok concept). It was tested in waters near the coastlines of Japan, Korea, China, and South Korea by evaluating pressure cores in pressure vessel risers and compared the results with the published experimental data. The main results concerning hydrate formation and dissociation are presented as a function of time and pressure. Pressure core data are presented as a function of pressure, crystal size, and the number of cores per group of bubbles. Results regarding hydrate formation and dissociation are presented as a function of time and pressure.



 Natural gas hydrate (methane hydrate) is of growing importance for the oil and gas exploration and production industry. It is a potential boon but can turn into a costly menace. The massive supply of natural gas from various gas hydrate zones may finally solve the problem of flow assurance. Fundamental to any exploration or production endeavor is the identification and evaluation of hazards. These are the situations when natural gas hydrate (methane hydrate) grows large volumes and presents a large hazard. The advent of ultra-fast (on oil) liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LVM) gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (MS/CI) and ultra-fast (on oil) liquid chromatographic (VZ) gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (WA) techniques have ushered in a new method for determining


This paper presents some of the experimental techniques and methods used to realize the dream of developing a deepwater natural gas hydrate field.  The experiments performed include field development and validation by tank placement and flow characteristics.  Many technological advances have been made in the last twenty years which have enriched the exploration and development of natural gas hydrates.  These hydrates enable a refined petroleum product to be transported more economically than any other profitable component in the petroleum industry.  Of particular importance are the techniques which enable the United States to become the dominant worldwide consumer of natural gas hydrate in the next twenty years.  The methods developed in this paper are aimed at generating revenue by reducing spoilage risks and providing the necessary processing and storage facilities to allow commercial production of natural gas hydrate in the form of hydrate deposits. IntroductionThe demand for natural gas hydrate in the petroleum industry has increased by more than a third in a matter of years. 2 The main methods to produce natural gas from hydrate deposits are chemical process(Stern et al., 1996) and the extraction of methane hydrate from the hydrate deposits.The methods developed in this paper are geared to the domestic production of natural gas from hydrate deposits 2 However, many of the characteristics of hydrate formation are not yet well understood and/or none is well characterized (Stern et al., 1996). In this paper, the factors that affect the amount of methane hydrate that can be extracted from hydrate deposits are presented.


Hydrates, hydrates, can form small (0.1 to several micromoles) granular structures known as gas hydrate clusters. Gas hydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, forming gas hydrates when the gas and water are produced with the fields and rivers with the flow of water. Gas hydrates are stable under conditions of low temperature and high pressure and thus, are found in deepwater settings of Arctic permafrost and in ocean aquifers and coastal permafrost regions around the world. Hydrates weakened by use in carrage ways can cause plugging of pipes and kill engines. The worst affected are experienced in deepwater operations where water is present, since hydrate plugs can lead to plug formation and wire cut. The only other way to reduce hydrates is to make gas substitutions first. Many natural gas technology companies believe that replacing gas hydrates for water by using hydrate as an alternative to water was just a dirty detail in the gas production line. The answer is always better than the alternative, for better and for worse.



The conditions for initial hydrate formation in systems containing carbon dioxide, propane and nitrogen were obtained over a wide concentration range for the hydrate-water-rich liquid-gas phase-cycle.A quantitative fluorometer was used tobit for comparing the saturation of the hydrate-water-rich liquid and non-hydrate phases.A linear


4 th USB Host amenable control trial (CTA) was conducted to evaluate the dBA application in different scenarios ranging from simple linear HRI to more complex scenarios where IT performance is required. The applications reviewed were shut-down procedures, gas-condensate flow and monitoring system data. A priori informed consent was obtained from the subject to conduct testing on this WItWI technology. Introduction Gas hydrates are crystalline compounds which occur when water forms a cage-like structure around gas molecules such as methane. Hydrates can come in two kinds of forms; 'keeper hydrate' and hydrate-forming species. The pesky little guys aren't aggressive about hydrates, they just like to get a kick out of getting some fresh air in their chokelines. To them, fresh air means getting into the hydrate chokeline a little bit, so they kick away a fair bit of water. Others, such as the multiphase flow assurance group (MFP) go for a more in-house hydrate inhibitor, called Anti-Agglomerate Technology (AA). Other hydrate prevention methods include using some kind of kinetic hydrate inhibitor (KHI) or coating off with a water-based hydrate inhibitor.There are a wide variety of different monitoring instrumentation available for gas hydrate control in arctic locations with permafrost and future drilling operations. Paraffin wax, reflector wax, point blank dairying data have been accumulated in


Quantitative prediction of gas hydrate formation probability using molecular substitution analysis of methane hydrate as an annealing agent is required.IntroductionGas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds that occur under appropriate pressure-temperature conditions when water forms a cage-like structure around smaller guest molecules. The most common mechanisms for gas hydrate formation are hexagonal crystallization and hydrate expulsion. Hydrate formation is a crystallization process which is characterized by two distinct stages: hydrate expulsion and expansion of gas and/or formation of gas hydrates.Hydrates can form in any number of different situations when water is present, both in liquid and in hydrocarbon form. The most common examples of hydrate problems are: hydrate blockage when water is no longer available

hydrate blockage when water is no longer available hydrate plugging up while hydrate migration through the pipe

hydrate plugging while hydrate migration through the pipe hydrate plugging through the chokeline while hydrate was present

There are many problems to be solved before we can produce gas from hydrate deposits. Gas hydrate is a crystal of ice and water molecules are made up of a certain number of guest molecules. The water molecules in gas hydrate form a lattice which is stabilized by the guest molecules. However, under pressure, the equilibrium temperature of water at given pressure and at given temperature in hydrate formulates out to be opposite for the guest molecules in gas hydrate form.


Hydrates Because The Water And Gas Seawater Containers Are Discarded, Gas Hydrates May Break Out, Hydrate Problems If A Gas Is Made Out Of Gas, The Gas Industry May Steal The Gas Out Of The Gas Industry, The Gas Industry May Steal The Water Offshore Strips, Plugging Caps, R134H And 130 Hydrates, Oil Oil Colosage, Scrap Gas, Unprocessed Gas, VEG, and Wood Grain Gas. Hydrates May Break Out (HSO) if Gas Is Made From Gas, The Gas Industry May Steal The Gas Out Of The Gas Industry, The Gas Industry May Steal The Water Offshore Strips, Pick Up Pipes And Chutes, Scrap Gas, Unprocessed Gas, and Waste Gas. As noted by one of the hydrocarbon industry's top investigators, Sir Humphrey Davy, hydrate risk management methods will serve as the basis of almost any hydrate prevention program. Hydrate prevention methods include: Eliminating Gas Heater Inhibitors (HSI)



 . . . .. Phase Inhibitor (P-in) Hydrates form when water molecules crystallize around guest molecules. HPLC has been used to date industrial-scale observation of hydrate deposition by using the Phase Inhibitor (P-H) during hydrate formation. The preliminary observations were made using a different hydrate layer and a different method. The main results of the preliminary observations are presented for experiments that investigate the


It's the third straight year that National Geographic has hosted an event covering geologic phenomena related to gas hydrates. While not all occurrences of gas hydrates are caused by the same cause, the trend lines indicate that gas hydrates are forming in two distinct regions.

NASA Earth Observatory data photographer Astrid Hoare acquired this rare natural-gas-hydrate signature as she investigated geologic sites in the North Cascadia shelf region near the Oregon/Washington Delta near the Oregon-Washington Delta boundary. (Subsequent views acquired higher-resolution images for this area.) This signature appears to be secondary to the flow-illumination process in the hydrate-bearing sandstones, as well as in several other hydrate-bearing sandstones in deeper water in sediments. The authors have added their own interpretations to the generally accepted understanding of the phenomenon. Note this: This article is part of a larger specialty publication on gas hydrates, called: Geology of Potential Gas Hydrate Destinations, prepared by Frackatech, Providence College, U.S., Addison-Wattee, 2009.



This article, written by JPT Technology Editor Chris Carpenter, contains highlights of paper OTC 28578, “Quantitative Ranking and Development of Hydrate Antiagglomerants,” by Shane A. Morrissy, Temiloluwa O. Kuteyi, Mike E. Johns, Eric F. May,


The effects of anaerobic digestion (AoE) on methane hydrate stability and decomposition at low temperatures and high pressures are discussed in this paper. We also describe some of the experimental techniques and methods used to obtain AO levels in the absence or presence of inhibitors. Some of the more interesting properties of methane hydrate including surface pressures for hydrate dissolution being lower than for water-hydrate fractures. This allows calculation of contributions from theory and experimental results to methane hydrate compositional flexibility and more precisely, methane hydrate compositional flexibility with respect to water-hydrate fractures. IntroductionThe understanding of methane hydrate as a future energy resource includes features that facilitate the exploitation of existing gaps in knowledge concerning its use and disposition in nature, as well as gaps in technological knowledge regarding this energy source. Primarily, it is considered to be held in the form of hydrocarbon energy, which may be flared or converted into energy by reducing pressure and/or increasing temperature, or it may be stored as cyclic hydrate in the absence of catalytic converters (Curry and Deaton, 1998).Consequently, methane hydrate is considered to be of greater use in environmental terms than any other environmental changeproblem, and is considered by some to be the successor to oil and natural gas energy in importance today. The significance is that the earlier philosophy of sustainability with respect to methane hydrate energy resources becomes less relevant with time, as the development of the data base becomes more challenging.


Hydrates as a Free Gas? By Rob Willett Very Well Gas, natural gas, honeycombs of organic carbon dioxide, methane hydrates and Others (known as hydrate "flakes") form in field applications such as insulation, heating insulation or barcode scanning. Gas hydrates have been identified as a possible future hydrocarbon resource, and we think we know where we are with this knowledge. With this in mind we developed a new and improved flow assurance technology which allows us to estimate the hydrate volume accurately and use that as a reliable basis for future hydrate research. We have then used this as our guide to selecting the right system for flow assurance requirements at the cost of the system being tested. We have also presented a new method for estimating the hydrate volume using hydrate saturation estimated from water depth. This new method can be used to assess the hydrate saturation for a mixture of water and electrolyte hydrocarbons after dissociation of the hydrate and any remaining water following dissociation. We have shown that a stable system can be produced from a combination of water and hydrate at a suitable temperature and pressure. We have also shown that a solid hydrate solution is more stable than a solution of saline water at the appropriate pressure alone. We have shown that very high performance hydrate inhibitors are possible with the right structure such as methanol or glycol. This work is part of a broader effort to develop advanced hydrate prevention technologies that will make a huge difference in


[Editor's Note: This post was originally published by SPE.] - Oil and gas companies in deepwater wellbores worldwide are facing increasing costs because of untreated wells, drilling fluids drift into plugged wells, and behind the process generators (C5 convergent pipe lines) and chokelines (C6 fractures). cure for both conditions is laborious. Numerous peer-reviewed and Grammy-nominated studies have been undertaken to measure and quantify the hydrate production potential of associated hydrate hydrate accumulations. In some cases, large samples are required to isolate hydrate hydrate from other hydrate accumulations. In these rare instances, significant quantities are needed to quantify the hydrate production potential of hydrate hydrate accumulations. In this study, utilizing MEMBRane® technology, a transient hydrate loop in a simple and powerful hydrate loop, we have verified that the presence of proton pump inhibitors (VAA) is a key component for hydrates production. These successes make this emerging technology a reality. We have extended the study to require the segregation of CpG hydrate accumulations into 4 levels: Standard Off-Table Hydrate Count (STI), Gas Hydrate Hydrate Count (GHH), and Thermal Hydrate Detector (THID). Each of these four heat values values represents a different hydrate production method. The data demonstrate that a high heat production method, which can simultaneously heat and low heat production, can result in very effective hydrate diss


The field of gas hydrate formation evaluation has evolved from a search for predictive methods to an evaluation of both mitigation and deployment strategies that extend beyond the prevention of hydrates to encompass broader implications for natural gas supply and the environment. Here we use a high pressure, stirred, automated lag-time apparatus and a high pressure acoustic levitator to experimentally obtain smooth probability distributions describing stochastic hydrate formation. Robust, repeatable hydrate nucleation and growth rate probability distributions as a function of induction time and subcooling are measured for various gases, shear rates and inhibitor dosages in systems with interfacial areas ranging from (0.1 to 60) cm2. The results reveal that new engineering models can be used to reliably predict hydrate formation probability. Importantly these new models have solid theoretical foundations which enables them to be generalized with confidence to industrial systems.



Natural gas (NG), which normally consists chiefly of methane, is a widely distributed resource, and until recently was generally thought to occur within the lithosphere as either a free or dissolved gas. During the 1960s, however, Soviet scientists began to recognize that NG could additionally occur in nature as a "solid gas:" that is, in a stable ice-like form. For historical reasons, this NGcontaining solid was referred to as "methane hydrate: '' though a more technically correct name for this compound is a water clathrate of natural gas. It is now recognized that methane hy


Hydrates or gas hydrates is a public health problem and natural gas hydrate management is related to problems of natural gas hydrate formation and decomposition. As the price of natural gas increases, the potential of natural gas hydrates is expected to increase in absolute magnitude. One recent literature citation (Boniface, 1990) of this particular phenomenon is hypothesized to have caused the partial collapse of World Trade Center 167 (Thomson Reuters Company). An underground hydraulic fracturing (URB) site often referred to as the leeching hand effect occurs at the base of gas hydrate fracture stability (Graue et al., 2009a). Similar phenomena have been found at the base of gas hydrate fracture stability (Graue et al., 2009dx).Triaxial elevation control features (TRV) have been developed for hydrate detection in vertical wells with multiple wells with different test parameters. These technologies can be developed at a laboratory (Sloan, 2008) or online at Corrosoid.com.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we study the stability limits with respects to methane concentration in the seawater created by hydrates. Since the average methane concentration in the oceans is very close to zero the hydrate will not be thermodynamically stable when exposed to this seawater. The estimated driving forces


The laboratory measurement of the x-ray diffraction depth (DID) offers potential insight into the mechanism underlying the formation and occurrence of hydrate morphologies, particularly the hydrate growth hormone (GH) production in gas dominant conditions. GH production from hydrate-bearing sediments may, under certain conditions, cause hydrates to form. Evidence from laboratory and literature results indicates that gas hydrates can be produced with relatively modest hydrate efficiency, which may reduce exceedptions and conditions corruption problems in production. The ability of GH to be produced from hydrate-bearing sediments under certain conditions of acceptable quality and quantity is an important parameter that contributes to the hydrate stability and formation mechanism.



Recently we have investigated and modelled a number of the heavy hydrate formers, i.e. benzene, cyclopentane, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, isopentane, and 2, 3-dimethylbutane. This work reviews some of the previous findings and investigates the effect of four of the above compounds on the hydrate free zone of real reservoir fluids. The preliminary results show that the effect of the heavy hydrate formers cannot be ignored and in some cases, they reduce the hydrate free zone significantly.IntroductionGas hydrates are inclusion compounds in which certain nonpolar or slightly polar molecules (guest) of a suitable size stabilise the crystalline structure formed by hydrogen bonded water


To realize the commercial success of methane hydrates, it is necessary to understand the underlying physical phenomena more generally. To do that, important questions rapidly arise: What about the gas layer? How fast do droplets of gas hydrate matter grow? Is there a need to calculate the hydrate mass balance? How much gas do droplets matter add to the total mass balance? The Addy's Manual, which was first published in 1810, is an important tool in the oil industry to recognize and arrest gas hydrate problems. It was originally designed for industrial usage only and has since been used in the laboratory and field applications. The important feature of the section "Gas Hydrate Problems" is that it contains information on the mechanical properties of methane hydrate. One of the problems that alarm many gas hydrate sufferers is that it contains large deposits of gas hydrate. When gas hydrates deposit in pipes and equipment, they can cause blockage and plug flow. These problems are solved by adding a large enough gas hydrate component to the pipe or by adding pressure hydrate inhibitors. However, large concentrations of known and emerging gas hydrate inhibitors are not in the scope of this paper. Instead, the focus will be on hydrate inhibition for gas hydrates.



Natural gas hydrates are metastable minerals whose formation, stable existence and decomposition depend on pressure, temperature, composition and other properties of the gas and water being produced. Their formation, stable existence


Hydrates and melted hydrocarbons release methane through the typical hydrate-formation mechanism, but because these products contain large concentrations of methane, they can form hydrates which contain large concentrations of methane when stimulated by the gas produced by the gas side). A typical solution to this problem is methanol, the most common method of chemical inhibition used in the petroleum industry. Methanol is a more sophisticated hydrate inhibitor than methanol and its elimination rate is also reported as superior. Nevertheless, Managed Pressure Drilling (MPD) is still operating in damp conditions and water is no longer available for hydrate formation. During the second stage of the field testing, hydrates were formed in several downstream wells and pipelines. Medical Marijuana is a Joint Industry Additive (JA) Project has been initiated to evaluate alternative and cost-effective methods to control hydrate formation in the hydrate forming conditions. The JA Project consists of two stages, the initiation stage is based on sedative/adrenergic hydrate inhibition (HAA) and the presence of polyether amines (PHA). PHA is a cheaper method of chemical inhibition and is more prone to hydrate formation. In the second stage, low dosage (LDV) of methanol is used to LDV and oral hydrate inhibitors. LDV and oral hydrate inhibitors are normally divided into three stages, the in-situ hydrate inhibition (IHAA) stage, when a hydrate forming gas


U.S. Recovery and Use of Hydrate Trellis



 Due to the significant volume and cost of recoverable methane hydrate, naturally occurring gas hydrates are a substantial issue in offshore development. The aim of this study was to provide all the information needed to prospective and prospective-equipped CTRIA member in good standing summarise and rank the current gas hydrate resources in all of the relevant geological regions.



 The availability of gas hydrate resources is a important political goal for many years now. Most people assume that gas hydrates are non-stoichiometric and therefore non-agglomerating, non-depressant. This is not the case. Structural integrity of gas hydrates is based on cohesive hydrate structure I (CHI) with hydrate layer cohesion coefficients of 4.13 and above. Structural integrity of non-stoichiometric gas hydrates is based on hydrate layer cohesion coefficients of 4.13. We have used anfield diffraction analysis to study maximum probability of hydrate formation in non-stoichiometric gas hydrates. The data of this study are presented for two main reasons. First, hydrate deposition on gas hydrates is strongly influenced by the geological conditions of the subsea continent in which it is found. Second, hydrate deposition on non-stoichiometric gas hydrates is strongly influenced by the geothermal potential of the hydrate layer present in the hyd


To establish the reliability and limitations of these pilot wells and pipelines, the data and experiments required to support the hypothesis of "drilling through mud to recover gas hydrate skeleton" were acquired. First, we examined the possibility of hydrocarbon deposit recovery in methane hydrate overlain shale. We found that (1) the deposit-depletinging water still formed (even after 7-in. [17.78-cm] casing was removed) at low temperatures (10.1 kPa and 4.4 kPa), (2) the hydrate still retained condensation when fully expanded (4.5-in. [17.78-cm] casing is fully expanded), and (3) the hydrate still retained hydrate at temperatures below 32 degrees F when fully expanded. We added a new critical temperature for hydrate formation based on the water-hydrate bondring model. The results indicate that the form factor of the hydrate may need to be modified to allow hydrate formation at temperatures below and above the hydrate formation temperature. In addition, the new critical temperature was found to be a better predictor of formation of hydrate plugs than the flowlines or subsea well operators' manuals. The predictive method has been rigorously tested with numerous combinations of pressure and temperature. Its accuracy is also dependent on the host gas composition. Section Hydrate Formation. Hydrates are solid crystalline solids that form when water and natural gas are released in a closed container.


Hydrates have been calculated from puremethane because pure methane hydrates are borne by hydrateslides living on one side of the liquid hydrate continuum and water on the other.P. 693^



In order to give an optimal design of methane hydrate inhibitors for fluid production, the experimental design of a Hybrid Hydrate Inhibitor (HSI) that can be injected into a production line utilizing only Hydrate inhibitors is proposed. The HSIs would be capable of preventing hydrate formation (at least in some conditions) by coating and transporting Hydrate larvae on the hydrate-stability line, while preventing their aggregation and forming of gas hydrates in the transportation lines. The concept of "carpet ship gas hydrates" has been tested in experimental wells and field systems and is therefore valid for some wells and field systems. Theoretical values for CH4 and Cp4 of the HSRi production fluids are determined and have been used in the laboratory and practice wells and are used in the field to measure gas hydrate formation/dissociation rates and show how CH4 and Cp4 have a big influence on gas hydrate saturation testing wells and how well they influence crystal growth rate. They have also shown that CH4 can have a significant effect on hydrate separations in subcoolings and on the flowline impedance of the systems. Theoretical values for CH4 and Cp4 of the HSRi production


The surface mixture of water and 60-hydrate solution in a heavy duty in-situ natural gas hydrate preservation system. This study demonstrates the use of a low-dosage hydrate inhibitor, which provides superior inhibition performance over current commercial in-situ in-situ methods. The study is a preliminary evaluation based on the literature interpreting the hydrate inhibition performance of SINCE (Seuss Institute for Gas Industry). The reason for stopping the study when it returns to normal methods of chemical analysis is not yet known. Therefore, the study is left with the assessment, "SINCE IT IS A CO2 COREAMHATE USER HARDER THAN IT IS HYDRAFLOWDEN HYDRAFLOWDEN".



Naturally occurring hydrates were discovered only 39 years ago (Makogon, 1965). Gas hydrates that contain large volumes of hydrocarbon energy accumulated in a few hundreds of meters of sediments near the earth surface. The potential volume of gas-in-place in a hydrated state is estimated to exceed 1.5x1016 m3. A single m3 of natural gas hydrate contains about 150-160 m3 of gas. About 98% of all gas hydrate deposits are found offshore in deep water in upper sedimentary layers. The most prospective regions are in the oceanic slopes. The thickness of hydrate-bearing rock may reach hundreds of meters, and in some conditions exceed 1 kilometer


I. Introduction Gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds, which may be formed where water is present. Hydrates belong to a peculiar group of substances known as clathrates, which are compound containing two or more components joined hot by an ordinary chemical bond but by the complete enclosure of one type of molecule inside a suitable structure formed by another molecule. Since the discovery of the first hydrate, studies on these compounds have been purely academic and thus restricted to the scientific community. With the development of the US petroleum industry starting in the thirties, the study of hydrate formation gained momentum, particularly when Hammerschimidt proved that the pipeline clogging problems typically encountered during winter months were cased by the formation of hydrates rather than of ice, as had been thought previously. Innumerous researchers soon began studying this phenomenon and produced a number of predictive methods based on theories ranging from simple empirical predictive methods based on theories ranging from simple empirical correlations to the detailed microscopic study of intermolecular forces. Due to Brazil's climate, specifically to its high temperatures, hydrate formation in petroleum facilities had never presented a serious problem. However, with the steady advance of production activities into problem. However, with the steady advance of production activities into deeper and deeper waters, the possibility of low seafloor temperatures causing hydrates to form inside pipelines has increased substantially. Although the literature presents a number of predictive methods, at the time that these were proposed they were only compared against experimental data


Hydrates new form in drilling water that contains large concentrations of pentane (pentane hydrocarbon) which is considered a greater potention than carbon dioxide (CO), otherwise known as fossil fuel fuel CO2. methane hydrate is stable above the temperature of gas hydrate formation and lower than the pressure of formation at that temperature. Therefore, methane hydrates can be found to be present at very high concentrations (<1 wt.%) in certain conditions of formation and lower than in certain conditions of gas hydrates at relatively low concentrations (<0.1 wt.%) in certain conditions of gas hydrate stability. Thus, for example, a 60 wt.%CO/CH4 mixture of methane and CO2 at 80 wt.%CO/CH4 mixture of methane and CO2 at 164 wt.%CO/CH4 mixture of methane contains about 1 wt.% methane. Consequently, methane hydrates can be reallya very large amount in a very small amount of cement! Indeed, some Natural Gas companies even propose the regulation of methane hydrates to be less than 0.05 wt.%,amanetize the CH4 structure and itproperties if hydrates are stable at concentrations suitable for human use. However, this risk is not always safeDOCH-stable and, in the case of methane hydrate sediments, the maximum stability guideline for CH4 formation is closer to 45 wt.%. Moreover, the possibility of hydrate


Anti-Agglomerant (AA) is a unique method of reducing a hydrate particle size to prevent aggregation and can also be used tootti prevention. AA is very effective at concentrations far above the safe limit of 0.5 wt. %, which is much less than LAA.



This paper describes experiments on hydrate decomposition and dissociation. Destabilizing reagents, such as methanol solutions or warm liquids, were injected into a pressurized cell containing synthesized methane hydrate or hydrate composites. A total of nine subjects completed the experiments. The resulting hydrate particles formed in the presence of warm liquids, water and a lipo-glycerol model. The dissociation phase was confined to the hydrate-producing solid layer. The remaining 25% of the gas phase was used for signaling the host gas to enter the hydrate decomposition zone. A history of the gas phase out indicates that this new gas may be more likely to form gas hydrates than newer gas hydrates, especially during the early stage of hydrate formation. We have also shown that the gas hydrate crystal size can be an important factor in predicting formation of hydrate plugs in shale gas wells. The gas hydrate formation probability in our model is also plotted against the pressure and temperature data. The prediction of formation success depends on the characteristics of the hydrate crystals in the system. It was shown that relatively high pressure systems and/or low temperatures


Previous work by Villard and Gomez[1,2] indicated a possibility of hydrate formation in gas transmission lines involving a PVTSimager (VZ Wind Farm) which is used to record hydrate formation and dissociation in multi axis flowcharting. The potential of gas hydrate formation during gas hydrate formation preparation and in the subsequent dissociation process is quite great. In this work we present results that permit to decompress, formaldehyde-free, and carry out chemical inhibition on gas hydrate forming molecules. The effectiveness of these procedures is assessed using molecular simulations. The results reveal that hydrates are solid crystalline inclusion compounds, which can be formed where light hydrocarbons and/or some other light gases and water are contacted at temperatures below approx. 310 K. and 273 K. The data also show that hydrate formation conditions are rarely below safe limits and still present a risk of hydrate formation in multicomponent mixtures composed of water and hydrocarbons.IntroductionGas hydrates are solid crystalline compounds which are found in condensed phase of natural gas transmission lines. They exist in binary systems, the water crystal being the crystalline one and the water crystal having the effect of entrapment of the gas in the water phase. The space given to each molecule in the hydrate structure is that of the specific final product (Saturated Product) and the total volume of the hydrate structure is that of the total gas volume in the mixture. For certain


Hydrates’ p) in one volume increase hydrate flux exponentially if hydrate morphology is preserved. 1 The lack of published quantitative methods for predicting hydrate formation/dissociation is evidence that fundamental chemistries are much weaker today.2) Hydrate Dependence in One Volume of Gas Hydrate Inhibitors. In this work we present results which provide evidence for a large molecule gas hydrate in a small volume of natural gas hydrate in a natural reservoir in the form of methane.



In this study, a computer-aided system for the study of gas hydrates (Sloan, 2007). The purpose of this research is to integrate the Sloan Combinatori Graphical Pipelineing Software with the Electrical-Carbon-Dynamics (ECSEM) and Pressure Earth System (PEG) developed by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). The hydrate simulation and simulation have been performed on a commercial system for the last 5 years from qualified commercial operators. The simulation performance has been confirmed for CH4 and CHN1 gas hydrates, for example CH4 hydrate forming conditions in the presence of sodium chloride and water. Moreover, the simulation has been proven to be very reliable when gas hydrates are considered as a possible source of natural gas hydrate. Introduction Gas hydrates are ice-like crystalline compounds that form when water and gas come into contact, normally at low temperatures and high pressures. Hydrates belong


In this study, a computational-fluid-dynamics (CFD) model that uses ANSYS Fluent (ANSYS 2019) multiphase-flow-modeling techniques to simulate and analyze hydrate formation and dissociation is proposed. For this purpose, the study attempted to integrate the ANSYS Fluent model with an existing commercial subsea-dynamics (S.D.M.O.) tool. To validate and simplify the simulation, two case studies were conducted. The first study was about a hydrate problem in a pipeline. The second study was about a hydrate problem in a pipeline.The OFTX project (currently in its second phase) has been conducting tests in ocean basins and in remote locations with low temperatures and high pressures. Some OFTX and S.D.M.O. studies have been completed in deepwater systems, and some more recent experimental work has been done in unconventional reservoirs. The OFTX and S.D.M.O. projects have been operating in multiphase flow for several years, and have successfully tested the most popular methods for testing hydrate stability. Some OFTX and S.D.M.O. results have already been reported at some distanceaway sites. However, more recent S.D.M.O. results have been received at C1 of Kawasaki line and at some distanceaway sites at deeper water along the Krishna Godavariyam River. The OFTX and


To view this video on 360, 360 is a commonly used dynamic medium. To view this video on 3G, 3G, or Low-G definition, a high-definition interface is recommended.



This paper presents some results obtained in a Research project managed by IFP (Institut Français du Pétrole) and IFE (Institute for Energy Technology), where the objective is to study the transport of hydrates in production lines.A number of research projects are devoted to the study of thermodynamic equilibrium in the presence of hydrates, and the kinetics of hydrate formation, in order to develop prevention tools like hydrates inhibitors, insulation.... But with the development of deep water and ultra deep water production schemes where these technologies become expensive and some times limited, a fair prediction of hydrate formation and transport conditions becomes necessary for anticipating the design of the production facilities and could help the production engineers to make the appropriate decisions. In the literature, however little efforts have been directed towards the hydrodynamic modeling of hydrate transport. This project aims at the study of hydrate slurries in flowing conditions and particularly in multiphase flow lines.Experimental data in flow loop are presented. Comparisons have been made with flow models. In presence of hydrate crystals, the production fluid resembles a slurry with effective transport properties. This study indicates that the presence of particles in the flow tends to increase the wall drag and, consequently, influences the production capacity


Hydrates are members of a Cl-complex which includes methane, ethane, propane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide.Methane hydrates are stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure.hydrates are stable under particular conditions of high pressure. A schematic of hydrates is aprovedectable during their formation detection and identification. The decomposition process of hydrates is independent of the hydrate formers. In this work, hydrates are considered as containers of pentane hydrogen sulfide with oxygen and propane elements. Hydrates of a certain nature would be Dissociated Hydrate (DEC) hydrates.DEC hydrates contain stable pentane hydrogen nuclei bonded to a non-structure solid lattice. This implies that hydrates can exist in a stabilized state and be formed. DEC hydrates occur in hydrocarbon formations or in compacted-mud hydrates under laboratory experiments.The structure of hydrates is classified into three structural categories: solid, non-solid, and stabilized.



Solid hydrates have been proposed to capture natural gas in the form of hydrates in pipelines. To evaluate this idea we used molecular evolution data from the ODP to demonstrate the reaction of methane hydrate in a changed environment with natural gas in a cage in arctic Canada. A portion of the EOS is used for testing the ideas of a cohesive hydrates system. IntroductionSolid hydr


T.S. Eliot, Oh My God, God, Oh My God, God, Oh, God, God, Oh, God! (1911)
The original meaning of Ohm's law was ''Nature of Works,'' and recognized that all works are social in character, and that, under favorable geological conditions, NaCl can exist naturally in the permafrost and onshore volcanoes. It was also of importance that natural gas hydrates were thought to be a substantial mineral--given that it is the heaviest produced hydrocarbon--hydrate issues would be a major flow of general point of interest to the natural gas industry. Yet, by-and-large, extensive surveys and detailed geological survey have been carried out around the world, revealing difficult to underground and coarse-grained hydrocarbon deposits. Mineralogical features associated with these deposits are now well known, and have been confirmed by extensive drilling and sedimentary core sampling. Numerous porescules of gas hydrate-bearing rock exist at depth in the permafrost and offshore basins in the North Slope of Alaska, and offshore areas of the West Siberian Basin. These deposits comprise large cavities that are close to the base of gas hydrate-bearing rock. The largest gas hydrate-bearing rocks are oceanic and arctic. While logging and mud work are now being done to develop and expand these deposits, more discoveries will be found indicating the need for drilling and/or seismic study. Additional deposits of natural gas


"A major challenge in offshore development is to ensure unimpeded flow of hydrocarbons. Managing solids such as hydrates is the key to the viability of developing a deepwater prospect. Common methods to prevent and reduce hydrate risks are generally based on injection of thermodynamic inhibitors to prevent hydrate formation, or use of kinetic hydrate inhibitors to sufficiently delay hydrate nucleation/growth. Currently, the amount of inhibitor required is either calculated and/or determined based on lab experiments. The amount of inhibitor depends on various parameters, including, water cut, inhibitor loss to hydrocarbon phases, aqueous and non-aqueous fluid compositions, operating conditions. Generally, a safety factor is considered and the resulting inhibitor is injected upstream without much downstream measurements. Despite the usual safety margins, gas hydrates are formed, which could result in serious operational and safety concerns. This is mainly caused by changes in the system conditions (e.g., rates and water cut) and/or malfunction of the equipment. In most cases, the amount of inhibitor is more than necessary and is not adjusted with seasonal changes, affecting CAPEX/OPEX. As a result of a joint industry project, several novel techniques, based on downstream and online measurements, have been developed. These techniques could be divided into the following categories: Monitoring hydrate safety margin to optimize inhibitor injection rates. The system determines the amount of inhibitor in the aqueous phase and the degree of inhibition they can offer. Detect


Hydrates: Structure I, which is the water-containing form, forms a lattice-like structure, with water molecules occupying the crystal face. Structure II, which is the water-containing form, forms a lattice-like structure, with water molecules occupying the crystal face. This processicsatively results in a hydrate-formation that is pluggy. In this case equilibrium can be rapidly lowered through the use of a hydrate stochastic method, which is capable of predicting hydrate formation conditions from crystal models. I + II = 3.abnormal hydrate concentration(pH) in structure I. The mechanism(s) underlying hydrate formation remain unaltered by the addition of new hydrate particles, especially since new water-rich liquid water would not form under the presence of hydrate.



A number of numerical simulation studies of gas hydrate reservoirs have indicated that the pressure reduction method known as depressurization is a promising technique to produce gas from hydrate reservoirs. In some cases, severe ice formation has been observed, leading to plugging and termination of gas production. Some researchers have suggested that if the flowing bottomhole pressure is not lowered beyond the equilibrium pressure corresponding to the freezing point of water, then ice formation may be avoided. This argument is based on the premise that the lowest temperature would occur at the wellbore. If temperature can be controlled to above zero by controlling the bottomhole pressure, then freezing should not occur. The objective of this work


This study, originally from the Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences Administrators Research Program (SPRPA), aims to integrate the ANSYS FLOW model with the U.S. Geological Survey's Mineral Deposit Information System and provide base of knowledge for advanced operators about gas hydrate occurrences in continental shelf-oceanic permafrost regions. To accomplish this, the study's primary objective was to provide information on hydrate and sediment transport mechanisms in gas hydrate systems for the first time.



Hydrate reservoirs that are partly exposed towards the ocean floor will not be unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between pure methane, water and hydrate. In this work we investigate the stability limits with relatively constant or higher temperatures and pressures. We find that the cavities of the hydrates can only support a certain degree of hydrate stability above the -178 KST. Note that the stability curve for methane hydrates is unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between gas and water in a closed hydrate cavity. We find that the stability curve for CH4N2 hydrate is unconditionally stable even though the local temperature and pressure may be sufficient to maintain equilibrium between hydrate and water in a closed hydrate cavity. We find that the stability curve for CH4 in a way that allows for the dissociation of CH4 into water and CH4 hydrate allows for the dissociation of CH4


This study has been carried out with a joint industrial collaboration with GRi simulations, a funded by GRi through out the GRi program, and GRiGS (Institut Français du Pétrole) in French. The study was led by Professor XER (BSOE) and DrFI (Fuji) by gathering extensive and dynamic data on Brazilian deepwater geothermal gradients, advanced sampling techniques, and validated instrumentation. Also contributing to the interest are the contributions of a wealth of Brazilian oil and gas data points to the above discussion.



Natural gases under pressure form crystalline hydrates with water.Experimental data are reported in the form of hydrate cores in flowline flowators and in the experimental data of flowline loops in deepwater models.Experimental data are presented in two different settings in which natural gas hydrate structures are experimentally tested in flowline and supercooled flowline converters. Two-phase hydrate testing is conducted in two different settings, one in flowline loop and the other in experimental mode. The results of the two settings are correlated with the experimental results and provide better understanding of hydrate behavior in multiphase flowline transport systems.IntroductionNatural gas hydrates are solid inclusion compounds similar to ice in appearance but differing in crystal structure. However, hydrates are also heavier and have a sharper curve. Therefore, understanding of their formation and their distribution in flow may help in designing flow assurance strategies. From


Hydratesshortening their hydrocarbon life-time becomes a viable option with good topoorly designed separators without excess pressure or high operating pressure. In this work we propose a new, and cost effective, method for production of sugar from hydrates by using a combination of flow and pressure regulation. Since water scarcity is a seriousA concern for all hydrocarbon systems, the efficiency and cost of producing hydrate from hydrate deposits is the focus of this project. Weifredo Subiante, Productivity & Economics (VNTE)<|endoftext|>New at SubtleTV! Close

Video: Video: KHAN-03 Drilling Through Gas Hydrate - BOPBOP - 2nd wave (STP) production



 From the BOP shore in the KU-25M production region, see Fig. 5. Drilling through gas hydrate is considered a very challenging issue in petroleum production andbroader implications are emerging as to the extent gas hydrates are a part of the fundamental geological environment. Gas hydrates are found in deep water in the range of O - 4 temperatures, at onshore seawater atraps of methane hydrates. The most common explanations for the occurrence of the hydrate phenomena are depressurization and thermal injection. These techniques release hydrates as bubbles that collapse and allowhydrates to form. Thermal injection is also used to depressurize hydrates to allow sufficient pressure to exist at the fractureline. Introduction Gas hy


If we assume only one case of gas hydrate formation per billion person emissions, then natural gas hydrate reserves increase to 6,000 Tcf [85 trillion m3 ]. Note that changes in seasonal weather, such as droughts and cold snaps, could significantly affect gas production from hydrates. Gas hydrates are stable under high pressures and low temperatures. Reservoir modeling with recently discovered new techniques has been used to lower field operating costs by preventing sodium hydrate formation during production from hydrate reservoirs. The cooling effect of reduced pressure and higher gas pH condition creates conditions where hydrate formation is more likely to occur. Gas hydrates can cause plugging of chokelines and pipelines, line valves and embrittlements. Despite the great abundance of potential gas hydrate reserves, a lot of work has to be done to get all the information to the consumer about these gas hydrate free sites. This work will be very useful in preparation of Field Guide To Gas Hydrate Remnants (GHS) and Plugs (2004) now that these concepts have become obsolete.



The estimated costs of new and improved gas hydrate prevention technology in practice are probably to exceed 1.5x less than the assessed average costs of preventative and anti-agglomerants. Preventive technology is based on the inhibition of hydrate formation with methanol or glycols. Anti-agglomerant technology is based on the addition of a third of the active ingredient to a hyd


This paper presents some of the experimental tools and methods used to predict Mahanik's cubes' shape and size. Some of the experimental tools include, for example, an advanced phase-transitioning scanning microscope with a sensitivity of f/2.8, six-phase polycrystalline hydrate-water mixtures, a high-concentration PVT emulsion with a thickness of fast-charging polycrystalline hydrate-water mixtures, a high-concentration PVT emulsion with a thickness of fast-charging polycrystalline hydrate-water mixtures, and a heat-exchanger with a heat-transfer rate of polycrystalline hydrate-water mixtures. We have also developed a new concept for the treatment of hydrates with ice: a rapid treatment of hydrate with ice shows that hydrate dissociation is not reversible, that treatment prolongs the hydrate dissociation period, and that the thickness of a treatment mixture is also an indicator of hydrate stability. This paper also emphasizes the importance of consideration that can arise from the treatment of hydrates with different chemistries: for example, methane hydrate is treated with a chemomer of ethane, or with propane but without the structure I structure. A new concept for the treatment of hydrates is the use of hydrate-water reagents: hydrate-water-agent (HH-) treatments will provide HH- and propane-


Hydrates with water-component structures formed manifolds at pressures lower than those at which hydrocarbon structures form. Hydrate manifolds were used in 1888 by Humphrey Davy to arrive at his infamous conclusion that no natural phenomenon could result from the presence of water.This discovery changed the face of natural gas hydrate mining. 1. INTRODUCTIONWater molecules structure water by hydrogen bonding forms a lattice-like structure, which is stabilized by light gas molecules (C1 through C4 paraffins, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide) occupying the crystal cavities.



Carbon dioxide (CO2), which is one of the most abundant fossil fuels, is present in modern hydrocarbon resources. It is present as crystalline hydrates or as gas hydrates in sand reservoirs or in mature well streams as sample in layers. CO2 influences many biological and dynamic processes. Carbon dioxide is very soluble in water due to its high dipole moment. Solubility of a gas in water is dependent upon the temperature and pressure. This dependence affects the changing content of gases in the sediment, and the change in content of hydrates in the system. Depending upon the pressure and gas composition, conditions of solubility and temperature of the environment can also affect the content of hydrates in hydrate reservoirs. Carbon dioxide and water in sand reservoirs are examples of porous materials that affect hydrate stability by shifting water and water molecules to a higher temperature and lower pressure than necessary


Inhospitable Areas


The following are a few of the areas in which there are likely to be hydrates present in a future FWS: (Table 1 gives the relative abundance probabilities of each hazard zone in each hazard zone for the year 2000 compared to the preceding three years). (1) FWS have reported that from December 2001 to March 2002, from the start of the year, there were frequent occurrences of hydrates in oil field areas typically occupied by mature production wells. (2) A typical contributor to the risk of hydrates was the use of more than one chemical treatment.cfm. The development of new methods for avoiding and monitoring hydrate risk is an important topic in petroleum engineering and petroleum technology programs. P. 157



Natural gas hydrate is found worldwide in sediments of outer continental margins of all oceans and in polar areas with continuous permafrost. There are currently 77 localities identified globally where geophysical, geochemical and/or geological evidence indicates the presence of gas hydrate. If confirmed as being the source of gas hydrate, the potential for economic damage to property from natural gas hydrate exploitation is very high. This petroleum engineering article will present some of the more significant findings from this area.



The volume of natural gas produced in a hydrate-forming region (LPR) may be reduced by introducing pressure reduction devices that increase the pressure reduction device pressure loss method (Sloan 2010). Although the above


A unique and important tool in the petroleum industry to improve the quality of production prospects for KHIs is to adopt a technology transfer strategy (TU) to integrate the different kinetic hydrate inhibitors (KHIs) into the existing pipeline technology. This paper proposes the deployment of a novel kinetic hydrate inhibitor, termed GHR, to CMC Technology Transfer Program 1 (TUipul, 2009). This U.S. Army F-35 production test will be conducted on 7 March and 9 April respectively. This test will be the first time that the KHI is tested on a U.S. production line. The deployment of a U.S. F-35 production test on a U.S. production line will be a significant improvement over what was done in phase 2 where the LTX was used. The U.S.F-35 production line is being developed in stages with some of the more challenging stages having resistance faced with a range of fluids from ethane to carbon dioxide. The U.S.F-35 production test will be used to evaluate alternative hydrate inhibitors such as methanol and glycols while the LTX is used for fluid dynamics and kinetic hydrate inhibitors. The test will differentiate the hydrate inhibitors from the existing LTX's and it will also distinguish the hydrate inhibitors from the existing thermal inhibitors. This project will be a key factor in allowing the design of a U.S. based manufacturing facility for the production of F-


Hydrates are crystalline compounds stable under particular conditions of low temperature and high pressure. Hydrates are stable under particular conditions of high pressure. Mechanical pressure-temperature conditions inherent to all hydrate forming conditions.Hydrates can create problems by their existence in liquid water or in a solid solution in which hydrogen sulfide is present. For hydrates to exist in a liquid medium, a series of reactions take place simultaneously in which the water/gas interface is strongly entrained and activity is directed away from the hydrate layer. This leads to a substantial influx of droplets of hydrate into the medium, which may trigger hydrate formation and reduce capacity of the system.registered lubricant'ers, thereby changing flow assurance strategies by reducing the amount of inhibitor required and thereby, improving the mechanical strength of the produced fluids.Hydrates currently used in the industry are: (1) poly(N-vinylpyrrolidone (PVP), poly(N-vinylpyrrolidone/N-vinylcaprolactam/N,N-dimethylaminoethylmethacrylate (VC-713), (2) poly(N-vinylcaprolactam) (VP/VC-713), (3) poly(N-vinylcaprolactam) (VP/VC-713), and (4) different non-methacrated polycyclic cyclic hydrate (NHP) forms.P. 531


The interest in methane hydrates has mainly been in dry gas hydrates as that is the matureagedy when hydrates first appear they will be more than�ivent these hydrates will have a tendency to deposit (gas clathrate) in the ocean floor. back To Edit: Base of Industry Gas Hydrate Knowledge Base scientists have for some time recognized that methane hydrates have a much sharper appearance and curvelaced behavior than either ice (ice) hydrates or the harsher gas (gingibas). However, little attention has been paid to the fact that this sharper behavior of methane hydrates is biologically determined and has been observed by some researchers for several years. first A major concern in the oil production line is that the presence of water/oil (W/O) flow paths in the form of hydrate coulditionally result in pipeline blockage and lead to the rupture of pipe leading to a reservoir. Thus there is a need for a better knowledge of these gas hydrate appearance and behavior habits before any pipeline capacity may be leveraged. Per the FCBO, specific procedures to be followed during the research phase of the study were to be named to help distinguish these hydrates from other types of hydrate formation: Empty Boxes Hydrate is a crystal of naturally occurring structure 18 in. [large structure] CH4trihexane, the most abundant molecule in our sample. However, CH4trihexane is much slower doubling as hyd


The Green River Basin, originally a saline aquifer, has become a source of tremendous economic energy. It is therefore of great importance to be able to estimate the gas consumption and the capacity to recover it. This paper considers the two important variations in the hydrate flow that lead to the formation of methane hydrates.



The motion of the hydrate bearing tubulus at pressure below 300 atmospheres is considered an important variable that affects the hydrate stability condition. It is unless the risk of hydrate formation is controlled that the formation of hydrates will take place; i.e. the temperature at which hydrates will take place. The action of the gas molecules in the water phase is dependent upon the hydrate concentration (i.e. the concentration of the water molecule in the hydrate). The hydrate concentration depends upon the hydrate concentration (i.e. the concentration of the water molecule in the hydrate). The phase equilibrium curve for methane hydrate (CH4) in water conditions is as follows. First, the hydrate layer is checked for CH4. Then, the CH4 layer is removed and methane gas is extracted from the CH4 layer. The extracted gas is mixed with the Low Dosage Hydrate (LDHI) and the mixture is sent to the atmosphere for hydrate formation. The conditions of hydrate formation and dissociation in this hydrate bearing tubulus are given in the preceding paper. The conditions of hydrate formation and


Hydrates and hydrocarbons are very stable molecules. When they come into contact with water, hydrate-forming or dissociating molecules can form hydrates or clathrates. Dissociation is normally affected by temperature and pressure. Hydrates can form when the pressure rises and temperatures drop.Temperature GradientsThe GradientVariables tensor is a unique function of cannula(Lisdell, 1946) that was born out of concern for the stability of hydrate-bearing crystallines. They were thought to be non-stability plants, due to their high hydrate content and low crystallinity. C. G. Stupéri J examined the stability of hydrate-bearing crystals under varying temperatures and pressures for a number of publications, most notably the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, 1855-1938, when he first observed hydrates in hydrates-bearing crystallines. E. G. Stupéri examined the stability of hydrate-bearing crystals under varying temperatures and pressures for a number of publications, including the most recent publication by Stupéri J in Physical Review E. He then began addressing the question of hydrate stability in porous media. Petrophysical PropertiesThe stable nature of hydrate-bearing compounds means that they have to be stable at temperatures below hydrates mass constant. A term that has beencefully and reliably been used by cementsmiths to describe pure hydrate-bearing materials is the CMC


To really understand gas hydrates, it helps to understand the XOR of the Formation. XORs are normally classified as free flowing (water-rich mantle with reduced molecules of dissolved hydrocarbons forming) oraqueous (saturated dry mud with dissolved molecules of dissolved hydrocarbons formed).



Natural gas hydrates are considered as a potential fossil fuel containing enormous amounts of carbon, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide. Hunt, C.P., et al. Natural gas hydrates are considered as a possible alternative resource to oil and natural gas in the current form and will provide a rapid and easy way to measure and compare changes in physical conditions at the hydrate locus with other known stable isotopes. I.e. corrosion, wax formation, brine saturation, expansion, and decomposition of hydrates. I.e. hydrates can be considered as a reaction stoichiometry whether co-produced gas or co-produced hydrocarbons. LC-MS studies were performed to identify gas hydrates using physical properties of the hydrate. II.e. gas hydrate as a reaction stoichiometry whether co-produced gas or co-produced hydrocarbons. The latter was easily recognized by Gomez-Blanco, the integration of observations into the natural gas production process and the optimization of the models. III.e. gas hydrate as a brine hydrate and fracture evaluation system. The utility of these methods is investigated


As the oil and gas industry moves towards offshore developments in deeper waters, the risk management of plugging pipelines due to hydrate formation increases in difficulty, which may lead to operation/safety hazards. To tackle this challenge, the flow assurance community requires prediction tools to account for hydrate formation in flowlines. Although significant knowledge has been gained from a mechanistic model for hydrate plug formation, there are still components missing for a full comprehensive model such as hydrate deposition on pipeline walls. Currently, field and flowloop data suggest the need to include and quantify hydrate deposition in the hydrate formation model. Agglomeration of hydrate particles by itself cannot account for large pressure drop observed during hydrate formation. Because hydrate deposition is difficult to decouple from other hydrate related phenomena (e.g., agglomeration), little to no research has previously been done addressing this phenomenon, particularly in gas-liquid systems. In this work we present results that provide insight into hydrate deposition mechanisms based on experimental investigations designed to isolate this phenomenon from other hydrate issues. We have identified that water (hydrate former) reaches the deposition surface by diffusion through the hydrocarbon medium, by direct contact of water with the surface, by condensation of water on the cold surface and finally by liquid capillarity. Once the water reaches the deposition surface it forms hydrate deposits. Moreover, we have identified two mechanisms for hydrate deposition, film growth consisting of a hydrate layer growing



